  

 
We are UPM
UPM in brief
From the President and CEO 4
This is UPM  6
Our businesses  8
Our performance in 2025  10
Events in 2025 12
Our solutions for every day 14
Our strategy
We increase our growth focus through a 
streamlined business portfolio 18
We act on three fronts  19
Strategy in action 20
Financial performance and targets  24
Driving long-term value creation 25
Strategic milestones in 2025 26
Innovating for impact 28
Accelerating innovation through AI 29
Generating shareholder value 30
Risks and opportunities 31
Our businesses 
UPM Biorefining 36
UPM Energy 37
UPM Adhesive Materials 38
UPM Specialty Papers 39
UPM Fibres 40
UPM Plywood  42
UPM Communication Papers 43
Sustainability
Value from sustainability  46
Our 2030 sustainability targets  47
Actions for the environment 
Sustainable forestry  50
Enhancing biodiversity  52
Committed to climate action  54
T oward CO2-free energy  56
Responsible water management  59
Advancing the circular bioeconomy  60
Creating value for people and society
Active dialogue with stakeholders  62
People and culture  66
A diverse and inclusive working culture  70
Safety and well-being  72
Collaborating on human rights  74
Committed to compliance  76
Ensuring a sustainable supply chain  80
Contributing to society through taxes  82
Our societal and environmental impacts  84
Contents
Governance
Corporate Governance Statement 88
Board of Directors 90
Group Executive T eam 101
Remuneration Report           108
Accounts and performance
Report of the Board of Directors 116
Sustainability Statement 133
ESRS 2 General information 137
ESRS E1 Climate change 155
ESRS E2 Pollution 176
ESRS E3 Water and marine resources 183
ESRS E4 Biodiversity and ecosystems 188
 ESRS E5 Resource use and  
circular economy 199
ESRS S1 Own workforce 208
ESRS S2 Workers in the value chain 222
ESRS S3 Affected communities 229
ESRS G1 Business conduct 236
Financial Statements  258
Auditor's report 343
Sustainability Assurance Reports 350
Other financial information 355
More on sustainability 360
Contact us 362
This Annual Report provides a comprehensive overview of our performance 
in 2025. All material information has been integrated into this document, 
including the accounts, the Corporate Governance Statement, and the 
Remuneration Report.
Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) 
The EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) has 
introduced a standardized mandatory reporting framework requiring 
companies to disclose comprehensive information about their 
environmental, social, and governance performance. This includes actions 
to mitigate climate change, address human rights, and promote good 
governance.
Under the CSRD, the European Sustainability Reporting Standards 
(ESRS) outline the EU requirements and indicators and provide detailed 
guidelines on the content and format of reporting on sustainability-related 
impacts, risks and opportunities.
We have included the ESRS relevant to our business and the material 
topics identified through the double materiality assessment in the Sustain-
ability Statement (on pages 133–249).  
About this report
UPM reports on its corporate responsibility in accordance  
with GRI standards 
UPM has reported in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
standards for the period  from January 1, 2025, to December 31, 2025. Our 
GRI index document shows where the material topics and general disclo-
sures can be found in the Annual Report, on UPM’s website or in the GRI 
index document itself. It also includes information about omissions and 
additional explanations and disclosures on the management approach.  
The document is available on UPM’s website upm.com/sustainability.
The online reports 
All online reports can be found at upm.com/annualreport  
UPM Annual Report 2025 PDF version 
UPM Corporate Governance Statement 2025 
UPM Remuneration Report 2025
Accounts for 2025 in XBRL format
UPM GRI Content Index 2025 
UPM Material Balance 2025
Interactive Analyst tool for financial and sustainability data
Read more about our responsibility agenda at upm.com/sustainability.
Changes in the composition and names of reportable segments in 2026
UPM Fibres
Given the significance of the UPM Fibres business and the distinct charac-
teristics of its Fibres South and Fibres North parts, we will provide additional 
financial information for these two parts of the UPM Fibres reporting 
segment starting in Q1 2026.
In addition, we have moved the UPM Forest business into the UPM 
Fibres business area as of January 1, 2026. Most of the wood used by UPM 
in Finland is consumed within the UPM Fibres business, and the Finnish 
forests are therefore considered an integral operational and strategic part 
of the UPM Fibres North operations. The change improves consistency in 
reporting, as the forest assets in Uruguay have already been reported as 
part of the UPM Fibres South operations. Until the end of 2025, UPM Forest 
was included in Other operations.
UPM Biorefining
UPM Biorefining, consisting of UPM Biochemicals and UPM Biofuels and 
reported as part of Other operations, was renamed UPM Next Generation 
Renewables as of January 1, 2026. Following these changes, Other Opera-
tions includes UPM Next Generation Renewables, UPM Innovation (former 
T echnology), Group services, wood sourcing and forest assets in the U.S.  
UPM Specialty Papers
UPM Specialty Papers was renamed UPM Specialty Materials as of Janu-
ary 1, 2026.
In this Annual Report, we have used the names that were in use in 2025, 
except for UPM's business operations presented on pages 8–9.
UPM Annual Report 2025
2 3
UPM Annual Report 2025  
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
Our strategyUPM in brief Our businesses Sustainability
UPM demonstrated resilience and decisiveness in 2025. In an exceptionally turbulent environment, 
we maintained our focus on competitiveness and strategic choices.
Determinedly toward the future
From the President and CEO
In 2025, we continued our strategic renewal 
despite the turbulent business environ-
ment caused by the escalating geopolitical 
and trade tensions. Toward the end of the 
year , the market environment started to 
stabilize. and our actions to strengthen our 
competitiveness yielded visible performance 
improvements in most of our businesses. We 
finished the challenging year on a positive 
note, with strong cash flow and improved 
performance.
In challenging markets, our comparable 
EBIT decreased by 25% from the previous 
year to €921 million, representing 9.5% of 
sales. Our operating cash flow and financial 
position remained solid.
Transformative portfolio choices
We continued our strategic transformation 
with major portfolio decisions. During the 
first half of the year , we strengthened our 
position in adhesive materials with the 
acquisition of Metamark, sharpened our 
growth strategy in biofuels and discontinued 
developing the biorefinery in Rotterdam. 
In September , we started a strategic 
review of our plywood business, which has 
demonstrated robust performance and re-
silience over economic cycles. Through this 
review, we aim to determine the most bene-
ficial future alternatives for the business and 
UPM shareholders. 
In December , we announced our plans for 
the graphic paper business: a Joint Venture 
that would encompass the UPM Communi-
cation Papers business and Sappi's graphic 
paper operations in Europe. 
UPM has a strong heritage in graphic pa-
pers, and we are extremely proud of it. Over 
the years, we have transformed into a global 
leader with multiple businesses. The planned 
Joint Venture would start a new era in our 
transformation while continuing to provide 
the best possible future for the graphic paper 
business and its customers.
These portfolio initiatives would change 
the company’s profile, increase our growth 
focus, and improve margins and leverage. 
In the future, UPM would have an attractive 
portfolio of businesses in growing markets, 
with a record of consistently exceeding GDP 
growth. 
Growth potential in decarbonization 
solutions
UPM Energy’s CO2-free power generation 
assets supply reliable base load with nuclear 
power and value-adding balancing power 
with hydropower . As the second-largest 
electricity producer in Finland, the business 
is well-positioned to meet the growing need 
for reliable, CO2-free electricity. 
Our next generation renewables pave 
the way for future growth: 
UPM Biofuels has a solid market position 
in the European advanced renewable 
fuels market. This makes the business well 
positioned to seek targeted growth through 
potential debottlenecking and possible 
entry into the sustainable aviation fuels 
market. In 2025, the business improved its 
performance, returning to EBIT profitability 
thanks to excellent production efficiency 
and improved market conditions. 
In UPM Biochemicals, we have made 
significant progress in this exciting new busi-
ness. We successfully ramped up the first 
core processes at the Leuna biorefinery, and 
we are now operating commercially. Cus-
tomer interest and the qualification pipeline 
continue to exceed the annual capacity. The 
business is expected to reach full production 
and positive EBIT during 2027. 
Focused growth with advanced 
materials
Our advanced materials businesses offer 
technically demanding materials for grow-
ing end uses. These businesses require less 
capital than other UPM businesses and 
can pursue focused growth in the coming 
years.
UPM Adhesive Materials grew faster than 
the market, and ongoing efficiency measures 
are improving performance and capturing 
growth. The business has strengthened its 
presence in the U.S. and Southeast Asia 
and gained a solid position in the attractive 
graphic solutions sector .  
UPM Specialty Materials has a strong glob-
al position in flexible packaging, labeling and 
industrial release liners, as well as fine pa-
pers in the Asia-Pacific region. With a strong 
customer focus and technical capabilities, 
the business is seeking growth in specialized 
applications and adjacent opportunities.  
Maximizing value creation with 
renewable fibres
Thanks to our major investments in the 
highly competitive Fibres South platform, we 
now have world-class pulp assets, sustaina-
ble and productive plantations, and efficient 
logistics infrastructure. In 2025, Fibres South 
performed strongly despite  unfavorable 
market conditions. 
Fibres North complements our pulp of-
fering with high-quality softwood pulp, with 
well-managed assets and flexible operating 
mode that enables competitiveness. Our 
strategic partnership with Versowood, the 
largest private sawn timber producer in Fin-
land, strengthens our position in tight wood 
markets. 
Massimo Reynaudo
President and CEO
Maintaining our focus on sustainability
We believe sustainability is not only essential, 
but also good business. Therefore, sustaina-
bility permeates our strategy and operations, 
Our business portfolio meets the growing 
demand for renewable materials and enables 
attractive returns and new grpwth avenues. 
We use natural resources responsibly, 
reduce our environmental footprint, and 
enhance our positive societal impact. We 
believe in science-based actions and continu-
ous development.
Our longstanding commitment to sustaina-
bility is widely recognized. In 2025, these rec-
ognitions included the Platinum rating from 
EcoVadis, placing UPM among the top 1% of 
companies worldwide in sustainability.  
Creating shareholder value
We have entered 2026 with cautious opti-
mism, with the business environment show-
ing signs of stability. Our focus will remain on 
performance, cash generation, strengthening 
the balance sheet and successfully completing 
strategic portfolio initiatives. 
With a major investment cycle behind 
us, we will maintain our disciplined capital 
allocation, focused growth investments and 
balance sheet strength while offering attrac-
tive distribution to shareholders. In 2025, 
we launched a share buy-back program and 
repurchased six million shares for a total of 
€160 million, corresponding to approximately 
1.1% of the total number of shares.
Demonstrating continued confidence 
in UPM’s strategy and ability to create 
value, the Board of Directors proposed an 
unchanged dividend of €1.50 per share for 
2025. The dividend represents 113% of UPM’s 
comparable earnings per share for 2025.
We have witnessed extraordinary circum-
stances, but also the power of resilience and 
the value of trust. I want to credit the entire 
UPM team for their commitment, and thank 
our customers, shareholders and other stake-
holders for their continued trust in us. We 
look forward to our shared journey ahead!
UPM Annual Report 2025
4 5UPM Annual Report 2025  
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
Our strategyUPM in brief Our businesses Sustainability

Your partner in renewing materials and value chains
UPM contributes to the sustainable transformation of society with material solutions, 
utilizing renewable feedstocks. We create long-term value through our extensive portfolio of 
renewable fibres, advanced materials, decarbonization solutions and communication papers, 
collaborating with industries and brands worldwide.
 
 upm.com
T ake a closer look at our businesses on the next page
This is UPM
10,000
b2b customers
More than
300
million end-users worldwide
15,100
employees  
in 42 countries 
48
production plants  
in 10 countries
Sales by market
  Europe    
  Asia    
  North America    
  Rest of the world
6%
24%
15%
55%
Europe
In 2025, we launched 
significant strategic 
initiatives that continue 
to transform the 
company.
Advanced materials  
UPM’s advanced materials provide technical 
solutions that add value for a variety of growing 
applications, including paper and film labels, 
graphic solutions, flexible packaging, and 
labeling. Our plywood is ideal for construction, 
vehicle flooring, and LNG shipbuilding.
Decarbonization solutions
Our wood-based renewable biochemicals replace 
fossil-based materials in packaging,  PET bottles, 
cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, textiles, detergents, 
rubbers and resins. Our renewable diesel is suitable 
for all diesel engines and our renewable naphtha 
serves as a biocomponent for gasoline. Our CO2-
free electricity supports the decarbonization of 
energy systems, and we explore opportunities in the 
electrification of the society.
Renewable fibres
UPM’s renewable fibres cover a wide range of 
applications, providing pulp products well suited 
for tissue, specialty papers, packaging papers, 
graphic papers and board. We also offer sawn 
timber that is perfect for joinery, packaging, 
furniture, planing, and construction.
Communication papers
UPM offers the industry’s widest portfolio of 
graphic papers, including magazine papers, 
newsprint and fine papers. These products are 
ideal for advertising, publishing, and everyday 
use in homes and offices.
We are  
a material 
solutions 
company
Advanced 
materials
Communication 
papers
Renewable
fibres
Decarbonization
solutions
Sustainable, 
renewable 
feedstocksFO
S
SIL-FREE ENERGY
UPM Annual Report 2025
6 7
UPM Annual Report 2025  
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
Our strategyUPM in brief Our businesses Sustainability

Worldwide presence
Our strong and balanced business portfolio of renewable fibres, advanced 
materials, and decarbonization solutions provides a number of attractive 
growth opportunities. We serve global markets and our head office is in 
Finland.
UPM Fibres
UPM Fibres consists of pulp, timber and forest 
businesses. UPM Pulp offers a versatile range of pulp 
products suitable for many end uses such as tissue, 
specialty papers, packaging papers, graphic papers 
and board. 
UPM Timber offers certified sawn timber for joinery, 
packaging, furniture, planing and construction. 
UPM Forest secures competitive wood and 
biomass for UPM’s businesses and manages UPM-
owned and privately-owned forests in Northern Europe. 
UPM Forest also provides forestry services to forest 
owners, from private forest owners to forest investors.
• Annual pulp production capacity of 5.8 million 
tonnes, produced at two pulp mills in Uruguay and 
three pulp mills in Finland
• Annual capacity in tonnes by mill: UPM Paso de 
los T oros 2.1 million tonnes; UPM Fray Bentos 1.3 
million tonnes; UPM Kymi 870,000 tonnes; UPM 
Pietarsaari 800,000 tonnes and UPM Kaukas 
700,000 tonnes
• 495,000 hectares of owned and leased plantations 
in Uruguay
Renewable fibres
UPM Adhesive Materials
UPM Adhesive Materials provides high-performance, 
innovative self-adhesive products, including label 
materials, graphics solutions, and specialty tapes, as 
well as reliable services close to customers.
• 12 factories and 21 slitting and distribution 
terminals around the world
Factories
Belgium: Houthalen
China: Changshu
Finland: T ampere
Germany: Hagenow 
Malaysia: Johor Bahru
Poland: Biskupice Podgórne ( Wrocław) and  
Nowa Wieś (Wrocław)
United Kingdom: Scarborough and Lancaster
USA: Mills River, NC; Fletcher, NC and Dixon, IL
Slitting and distribution terminals
Argentina: Buenos Aires
Australia: Melbourne
Canada: T oronto
Chile: Santiago
China: Guangzhou 
France: Nancy 
India: Mumbai 
Indonesia: Jakarta 
Italy: Osnago
Mexico: Mexico City, Guadalajara and Rosarito  
New Zealand: Auckland 
South Africa: Johannesburg
Spain: Barcelona 
Thailand: Bangkok 
Turkey: Istanbul 
Ukraine: Kiev 
USA: Vancouver, WA 
Vietnam: Ho Chi Minh City and Hung Yen  
(to be opened in 2026)
Advanced materials
UPM Energy
UPM Energy generates carbon-free electricity in its 
own and co-owned power plants. The business also 
trades electricity and its derivatives on the market 
and explores opportunities in energy transformation. 
UPM Energy is the second largest electricity producer 
in Finland.
• The total electricity generation capacity is 1,943 
MW, including UPM’s own hydropower plants and 
shareholdings in other energy companies
• Approx. 33% share in OL1 and OL2, and 31% share 
in the OL3 nuclear power plant units through the 
shareholding in Pohjolan Voima Oyj (PVO)
•  Largest shareholdings: 
– 54.3% of Pohjolan Voima Oy (PVO), which is 
the majority shareholder (58.5%) in T eollisuuden 
Voima Oyj (TVO)
– 19% of Kemijoki Oy’s hydropower shares
Hydropower plants:
Finland: Kallioinen (Sotkamo), Kaltimo (Joensuu), 
Katerma (Kuhmo), Keltti (Kouvola), Kuusankoski 
(Kouvola), Tyrvää (Sastamala), Voikkaa (Kouvola) 
and Äetsä
UPM Next Generation Renewables 
UPM Biochemicals offers wood-based renewable 
biochemicals to replace fossil-based raw materials in 
various applications such as packaging,  PET bottles, 
cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, textiles, detergents, 
rubbers and resins.
UPM Biofuels produces wood-based renewable 
diesel for all diesel engines and renewable naphtha 
that can be used as a biocomponent for gasoline or 
for replacing fossil raw materials in the petrochemical 
industry.
• UPM Leuna Biorefinery: Annual production 
capacity of 220,000 tonnes of wood-based, 
renewable glycols, renewable functional fillers and 
industrial sugars (full production expected in 2027)
• UPM Lappeenranta Biorefinery: Annual production 
capacity of 130,000 tonnes of wood-based 
renewable diesel and naphtha
Biorefineries
Germany: UPM Leuna Biorefinery 
Finland: UPM Lappeenranta Biorefinery
Decarbonization solutions
UPM Specialty Materials 
UPM Specialty Materials offers specialty packaging 
materials for flexible packaging, labeling and 
industrial release liners, as well as office and graphic 
papers in the Asia-Pacific region.
• T otal annual production capacity of 2.0 million 
tonnes
Paper mills 
China: UPM Changshu
Finland: UPM Jämsänkoski (Jämsä) and 
UPM T ervasaari (Valkeakoski)
Germany: UPM Nordland Papier (Dörpen) 
UPM Plywood
UPM Plywood offers high-quality WISA® plywood and 
veneer products for construction, vehicle flooring, 
LNG shipbuilding, parquet manufacturing and other 
industrial applications.
• Annual production capacity of 785,000 cubic 
meters
Plywood mills
Estonia: UPM Otepää
Finland: UPM Joensuu, UPM Pellos 1, 2, 3 (Mikkeli) and 
UPM Savonlinna
 
Veneer mill
Finland: UPM Kalso (Kouvola)
Communication papers
UPM Communication Papers
UPM Communication Papers offers the industry’s 
widest portfolio for newspaper, magazine, marketing 
and book printing, as well as for home and office 
applications. The business has extensive low-cost 
operations in Europe and the USA, a global sales 
network and an efficient logistics system. Its main 
customers are publishers, cataloguers, retailers, 
printers and merchants.
• Annual paper production capacity of 3.7 million 
tonnes, produced in 8 paper mills
• Capacities: Annual production capacity of 1.4 
million tonnes of coated publication papers, 0.8 
million tonnes of uncoated publication papers and 
1.5 million tonnes of fine papers
• The combined heat and power (CHP) plants at the 
paper mill sites included in the business area
• Owns 76,000 hectares of forest land in the USA
Paper mills
Finland: UPM Jämsänkoski (Jämsä), UPM Kymi 
(Kouvola) and UPM Rauma
Germany: UPM Augsburg, UPM Nordland Papier 
(Dörpen) and UPM Schongau
United Kingdom: UPM Caledonian Paper (Irvine)
USA: UPM Blandin (Grand Rapids, MN)
• Certified sawn timber with an annual capacity of 
1.0 million cubic meters, produced in three sawmills 
in Finland
• Wood and biomass sourcing in 12 countries, 
522,000 hectares of own forest land in Finland, 
offering forestry services to private forest owners 
in Finland
• UPM RaumaCell, annual capacity of 100,000 
tonnes of fluff pulp, produced in Rauma, Finland
Pulp mills 
Finland: UPM Kaukas (Lappeenranta), UPM Kymi 
(Kouvola), UPM Pietarsaari and UPM RaumaCell
Uruguay: UPM Fray Bentos, UPM Paso de los T oros 
and certified eucalyptus plantations
Sawmills 
Finland: UPM Alholma (Pietarsaari), UPM Kaukas 
(Lappeenranta) and UPM Seikku (Pori) 
UPM Annual Report 2025
8 9
UPM Annual Report 2025  
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
Our strategyUPM in brief Our businesses Sustainability

Our performance in 2025
Comparable EBIT, €m
921
-25%
Performance
Capital expenditure, €m
621
attractive returns with disciplined  
and effective investments
Focused investments
Sales
€bn
9.7
-7%
791
Dividend (proposal), €m
Dividend of €1.50 per share  
unchanged
Attractive dividend
3,004
Net debt/EBITDA ratio 2.29
Net debt, €m
Strong balance sheet
Operating cash flow, €m
1,405
+4%
Cash flow
Comparable ROE
6.5
-1.8pp
Performance
and unused credit facilities, €bn
2.7
Cash funds
Business areas achieved  
their financial targets
2/6
Business areas
Aiming for continuous improvement in sustainability
86%
Transparent supplier requirements  
form the basis of responsible sourcing  
throughout the entire supply chain.
* Percentage of active employees completed the new UPM Code of Conduct training since September 2025, excl. the company UPM Adhesive Materials acquired in 2025.
-5pp
Share of spend covered 
by our Supplier Code
90%
Forest certification is an excellent tool  
for ensuring sustainable forestry.  
Chain-of-Custody requirements ensure  
100% supply from controlled sources.
+1.5pp
Share of certified 
wood
5.0
Ensuring a safe working  
environment for employees and  
everyone working for UPM.
-2%
Total recordable 
injury frequency
94%
The UPM Code of Conduct lays the  
foundation for responsible business  
operations and continuous improvement.
-5pp
Active employees completed 
Code of Conduct training * 
67
Engaged, high-performing people  
drive our success.
-3 points
Employee engagement 
score
2.9
Creating climate solutions  
and working towards  
carbon neutrality.
-15%
Fossil CO2 emissions 
(Scope 1 and 2), million tonnes
Sales 2025
€9,656 million
Business area information unconsolidated 
6%
16%
12%
4%
7%
24%UPM 
Fibres
32%
Capital employed 31 Dec 2025
€14,129 million
UPM 
Fibres
45%
2%
6%
19%
5%
6%
17%
16%
13%
16% 4%
20%
Comparable EBIT 2025
€921 million
UPM 
Fibres
31%
 Other operations     UPM Plywood     UPM Communication Papers     UPM Fibres    
 UPM Specialty Papers     UPM Adhesive Materials     UPM Energy
Recognitions
Dow Jones Sustainability Index: The only 
forest and paper company included in the 
Dow Jones European and World Sustainability 
Indices (DJSI) for 2024–2025.
MSCI ESG ratings: An AAA rating in the assess-
ment. MSCI ESG Research provides ESG ratings 
on global public companies based on their 
exposure to industry-specific ESG risks and their 
ability to manage those risks relative to peers.
CDP Program: A score for our leadership in 
corporate transparency and action on climate 
change, and a leadership-level score of A- for 
forests and water stewardship. An A score in 
CDP’s 2024 Supplier Engagement Assessment 
(SEA), which evaluates how companies engage 
their supply chains on climate-related issues. 
S&P Global's Sustainability Yearbook: To p  
10% S&P Global CSA Score in the Sustaina-
bility Yearbook 2025 as one of the top-scoring 
companies in our industry.
EcoVadis: The highest possible Platinum level 
for our sustainability performance, which only 
1% of the over 100,000 companies assessed 
globally attain. The assessment evaluates per-
formance across four categories: Environment, 
Labor and Human Rights, Ethics, and Sustaina-
ble Procurement. UPM’s overall score increased 
by 5 points, reaching an impressive 90 out of 100.
We are a participant in 
the UN Global Compact.
UPM Annual Report 2025
10 11
UPM Annual Report 2025  
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
Our strategyUPM in brief Our businesses Sustainability

Events in 2025
 5  UPM Adhesive Materials acquires Metamark, a UK-based 
company, to further accelerate growth in the Graphics business.
17  UPM’s new biorefinery in Leuna, Germany, achieves ISCC PLUS, 
PEFC, and FSC™ chain-of-custody certifications.
28  UPM Biofuels celebrates ten years of operations at its 
Lappeenranta Biorefinery in Finland, the world’s first commercial-
scale facility to produce wood-based advanced biofuels.
 5  UPM updates its Disclosure Policy and changes its method for 
issuing profit guidance and outlook.
 5  UPM commences a share buy-back program for a maximum of  
6 million shares, or a maximum of €160 million. 
 25  UPM's stream water program, launched in 2016, expands to 
include UPM-owned land areas in the catchment area.
 29  UPM and Versowood agree on a long-term partnership concerning 
cost-effective wood sourcing in Finland. As part of the agreement, 
UPM sells its Korkeakoski sawmill in Juupajoki, Finland, to 
Versowood and receives a minority shareholding in the company. 
10  UPM Adhesive Materials becomes the first labeling business to 
include product footprint data in customer quotes. 
23  UPM initiates a strategic review of the UPM Plywood business 
area to assess options for maximizing its long-term potential in 
an evolving market environment.
16  UPM Specialty Papers invests over €10 million in modernizing the 
UPM T ervasaari mill in Valkeakoski, Finland.
 5  UPM’s Board of Directors establishes a new employee share 
savings arrangement targeted at employees in countries where it 
is legally and administratively feasible. The first plan, MyShare, for 
2025–2028, is announced. 
11  UPM is recognized among the top sustainability performers by 
CDP and S&P Global.
17  Tuija Suur-Hamari is appointed Executive Vice President of UPM 
Plywood and a member of the Group Executive T eam as of 
September 1, 2025.
12  The UPM Raflatac business area is renamed UPM Adhesive 
Materials.
11  UPM Communication Papers announces plans to permanently 
close its paper mill in Ettringen, Germany and to streamline its 
structure to ensure performance. Production ends in December.
5  UPM cancels the 6 million shares repurchased under its buy-
back program.
7  UPM Adhesive Materials announces an investment in a new, 
state-of-the-art coating line at its factory in Johor Bahru, Malaysia.
4  UPM Adhesive Materials announces plans to discontinue label 
materials production at its factory in Nancy, France.
4  UPM Energy commissions a grid-balancing ultracapacitor at the 
Kuusankoski hydropower plant in Finland.
4  UPM and Sappi sign a non-binding letter of intent to form a 
graphic paper Joint Venture.
10  UPM expands its over 15-year collaboration with the Baltic Sea 
Action Group (BSAG) to include forestry water protection.
27  UPM announces plans to discontinue the development of its 
potential second biomass-to-fuels refinery in Rotterdam, the 
Netherlands.
19  UPM Plywood launches new WISA®-LNG Spruce plywood for the 
insulation elements of LNG cargo tanks.
11  UPM launches UPM Circular Renewable Black™ – the first bio-
based, NIR-detectable pigment for sustainable premium packaging.
16  UPM signs €1,250 million revolving credit facility agreement.
8  UPM completes the share buy-back program 
commenced in February. 
February
2  UPM announces that it has been listed as the only forest and 
paper industry company in the Dow Jones World and European 
Sustainability Indices 2024–2025.
9  UPM Adhesive Materials announces plans to open a new slitting 
and distribution terminal near Hanoi, northern Vietnam in 2026.
27  UPM holds its Annual General Meeting.
January
 April
September
October
November
December
June
24  UPM Adhesive Materials announces an investment in its factory 
in Mills River, North Carolina, to increase production capacity in 
the growing advanced labels market. 
28  Sami Pauni is appointed Executive Vice President, General 
Counsel, and a member of the Group Executive T eam as of 
January 26, 2026.
24  UPM announces plans to end paper production at UPM Kaukas, 
Finland by the end of 2025. Production ends in November.
30  UPM receives a Platinum rating from EcoVadis, placing the 
company in the top 1% globally for its sustainability performance.
July
May
August
March
19  The production and sales of industrial sugars, the first commercial 
products from the UPM Leuna Biorefinery begin.
31  Strategic partnership between UPM and Versowoods is finalized.
UPM Annual Report 2025
12 13
UPM Annual Report 2025  
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
Our strategyUPM in brief Our businesses Sustainability

Our solutions 
for every day
At UPM, we provide sustainable material 
solutions for everyday products that benefit 
both customers and consumers.
Enabling sustainable choices
We create value for our customers by enabling sustainable choices 
throughout the value chain. Our renewable solutions offer alternatives to 
fossil-based products and contribute to climate-mitigation efforts.
Our priorities for customers
Customer success
We focus on long-term relationships and customer success. Our 
commitment to innovation ensures that customers find tailored solutions 
for their specific needs, both now and in the future.
Deep customer understanding and collaboration
Our approach is based on a deep understanding of each market, how our 
products are used, and our customers’ needs. We maintain an ongoing 
dialogue with our customers and work with them on various product devel-
opment projects.
Sustainable product design
Sustainability is embedded in our product development from the be-
ginning. We consider environmental and social impacts throughout the 
product life cycle, from material selection through production, use, and 
recycling.
Transparency 
We provide environmental data and product declarations for our products, 
many of which carry internationally recognized ecolabels. We also offer 
product safety profiles, compliance declarations, and non-use warranties 
for chemical substances.
 Explore our solutions on our website
Electrification
Graphic solutions
Construction
Labeling Packaging
Tissue and hygiene end uses
 Printing and publishing
Apparel and textiles
 Automotive and transportation
UPM Annual Report 2025
14 15
UPM Annual Report 2025  
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
Our strategyUPM in brief Our businesses Sustainability

UPM Annual Report 2025
16 17
UPM Annual Report 2025  
We increase our growth focus through a  
streamlined business portfolio      18
We act on three fronts   19
Strategy in action   20
Financial performance and targets   24
Driving long-term value creation   25
Strategic milestones in 2025   26 
Innovating for impact   28
Accelerating innovation through AI   29
Generating shareholder value   30
Risks and opportunities   31
Our strategy
UPM Annual Report 202516
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
UPM in brief Our businesses SustainabilityOur strategy

We increase our growth focus through  
a streamlined business portfolio
We act on three fronts
In late 2025, UPM announced two strategic 
portfolio projects: the intended graphic 
paper Joint Venture between UPM and Sappi; 
and the strategic review of UPM Plywood 
(see page 27). 
Assuming the Joint Venture is formed, 
UPM would have a stronger growth profile, 
improved margins and lower leverage. 
There would be no direct sales exposure to 
the declining European and North American 
graphic paper markets. This would mark 
the beginning of a new era in our transfor-
mation.
A focused material solutions company 
with a strong track record of growth
Assuming the Joint Venture is formed, the 
future UPM would have an attractive busi-
ness portfolio focusing on renewable fibres, 
advanced materials and decarbonization 
solutions, all of which operate in growing 
markets. Across these businesses, UPM has 
a solid history of achieving growth rates 
consistently exceeding GDP growth over the 
past decade.
Strategic portfolio projects expected to 
be concluded in 2026
Through the graphic paper Joint Venture, 
UPM aims to position the UPM Communi-
cation Papers business to create continued 
value for its customers in a way that benefits 
UPM shareholders. The intended Joint Ven-
ture is expected to close by the end of 2026, 
subject to regulatory approvals and other 
closing conditions. 
UPM Plywood is currently undergoing a 
strategic review to assess options for maxi-
mizing the long-term potential and value cre-
ation of the business. The review is expected 
to be concluded by the end of 2026. 
UPM businesses Market growth
Decarbonization solutions:
Large long-term growth potential with unique solutions +++
Advanced materials:
Focused capital-efficient growth ++
Renewable fibres:
Maximizing value creation from the existing assets +
Communication papers:
Focus on cash flow
Form a graphic paper Joint Venture
-
In addition to the strategic portfolio projects, we will further improve competitiveness, increase capital 
efficiency and strengthen the balance sheet. We will capture focused growth opportunities. Following 
recent investments, UPM has a strong asset base to capture market potential in a capital-efficient way. 
We aim to develop a portfolio of world-class businesses.
• Improve performance through 
cost efficiency, streamlining and 
commercial excellence
• Increase capital efficiency and cash 
flow following recent investments
• Strengthen the balance sheet
• Strong asset base enables growth with 
low investment needs 
• Growth markets and faster-growing 
geographies
• Competitive production platforms
• Portfolio of leading businesses in 
growing markets 
• World-class performance in each 
business 
• Planned graphic paper Joint Venture 
• Strategic review of UPM Plywood 
Improve  
competitiveness
1 2
Focused  
growth
3
World-class  
businesses
Key enablers
People
We focus on performance, engagement, safety and integrity. Diversi-
ty and inclusion, learning, responsible leadership, and respect are at 
the core of our work. We aim for sustained excellence and continu-
ous professional growth. 
Productivity
We use advanced technologies, sustainable practices and strategic 
initiatives to improve efficiency and productivity. This ensures the
competitiveness of our businesses and supports our growth ambi-
tions.
Commercial excellence
We optimize commercial interfaces and processes to ensure secu-
rity of supply and enhance the customer experience. This supports 
our ongoing efforts to sustain and grow earnings. 
Sustainability
The UPM Code of Conduct underlines our commitment to integrity 
and responsible operations. We create value from renewable and 
recyclable materials, reduce our environmental footprint, and en-
hance our positive societal impact. 
Innovation
Sustainability, the circular economy, and our customers are at the 
heart of our innovation. We innovate new materials and solutions 
to help our customers’ businesses become more sustainable. We 
innovate to make our operations and processes more efficient. We 
innovate to increase our employees’ productivity.  
Sustainable, 
renewable 
feedstocksFO
S
SIL-FREE ENERGY
Renewable
fibres
Advanced 
materials
Decarbonization
solutions
UPM Annual Report 2025
18 19
UPM Annual Report 2025  
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
UPM in brief Our businesses SustainabilityOur strategy

Strategy in action
UPM is a material solutions company with world-class businesses in growth markets. 
These businesses are leading in their fields and aim for world-class performance. We 
have global market presence, which enables our businesses to capture opportunities 
in faster-growing markets, serving them from competitive production platforms.
• Maximize value in the volatile 
electricity markets
• Capability to supply CO₂-free 
electricity and ready sites for 
industrial use, to meet growing 
demand from electrifica-
tion, data centers and green 
transition
• 12 TWh of CO₂-free electricity, 
baseload and flexibility
• Strong value creation track 
record 
Energy
• Decreased variable costs
• Improved efficiency
• Discontinued the Rotterdam 
biorefinery development
• CapEx-efficient 
debottlenecking
• Qualification process for SAF
• Proprietary feedstock 
technologies development
• 130,000 tonnes of advanced 
renewable fuels
• Profitability improvement and 
recovering markets
Improve competitiveness Focused growth World-class businesses
• First customer deliveries of 
industrial sugars in 2025
• Further products will be               
introduced in the first half of 
2026
• Entry to new business
• Commercial interest confirmed
• Gather learnings for next steps
• 220,000 tonnes of pioneering 
renewable chemicals
• Full production and positive 
EBIT expected during 2027
Biochemicals
Decarbonization solutions 
Decarbonization solutions businesses address the growing need to reduce climate emissions, offering solutions ranging from the electrification of society 
to low-emission traffic and bio-based chemicals.
Market growth: +++
Biofuels
UPM Annual Report 2025
20 21
UPM Annual Report 2025  
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
UPM in brief Our businesses SustainabilityOur strategy

Communication papers 
Focus on performance and cash flow.
Market growth: - 
Improve competitiveness World-class businesses
• Planned graphic paper Joint Venture with Sappi
• Closed paper production at UPM Kaukas 
(300,000t) in Finland and UPM Ettringen paper 
mill (270,000t) in Germany during Q4 2025
• Combined reduction: 13% of capacity, €70 million 
of annual fixed costs 
• Sold the earlier closed Plattling paper mill site, 
Germany 
• Reliable supplier of sustainable communication 
papers, cost-efficient operations
• Strong 2025 free cash flow at €362 million
Improve competitiveness Focused growth World-class businesses
• Optimization of wood 
sourcing and inbound 
logistics, as the plantations 
increasingly reach maturity 
by 2027
• Planning capex-efficient 
debottlenecking to unlock 
further potential
• 3.4m tonnes eucalyptus pulp
• World-class low-cost 
platform, including highly 
productive plantations
Fibres South
• Strategic partnership with 
Versowood to strengthen pulp 
wood supply in Finland
• Flexible operating mode at all 
mills, efficiency measures
• 2.4m tonnes, mainly softwood 
pulp
• UPM Forest in Finland has 
been included in Fibres North 
from January 2026 onwards
Fibres North
Renewable fibres 
UPM Fibres offers sustainable, high-quality hardwood and softwood pulp, and sawn timber products worldwide. Its strong asset base and capabilities 
provide opportunities to increase capital efficiency and generate strong cash flow.
Market growth: +
• Decreased variable costs, 
efficiency measures
• Flexible paper-based 
packaging development
• Capacity to grow with low 
investments
• Strong position globally on 
growing label and release 
base materials markets
• Solid position on the promis-
ing renewable flexible packag-
ing materials markets
Specialty Papers
• Strong production efficiency 
in the second half of the year
• Strategic review initiated
• Launched a new solution to 
supply the strong demand in 
LNG shipping
• Strong position in Europe and 
globally in LNG
Plywood
Advanced materials 
The advanced materials businesses offer technically demanding materials for growing end uses. The businesses require less capital than other  
UPM businesses and are well positioned to pursue focused growth in the coming years.
Market growth: ++
Improve competitiveness Focused growth World-class businesses
• Actions to sharpen com-
petitiveness and restructure 
production footprint
• Closed production in two fac-
tories in Nancy, France, and in 
Kaltenkirchen, Germany
• Growth faster than the 
markets in 2025
• Investments to grow in 
advanced labels in the U.S. 
and to strengthen asset base 
in Southeast Asia
• Acquired Metamark, continu-
ing to build position in graphics
• Strong position globally on 
the growing label materials 
markets
• Establishing a solid position in 
attractive graphics markets
Adhesive Materials
Communication Papers
UPM Annual Report 2025
22 23
UPM Annual Report 2025  
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
UPM in brief Our businesses SustainabilityOur strategy

• Maintain a strong balance sheet. Accord-
ing to UPM’s leverage policy, the net debt 
to EBITDA ratio should be less than two. 
An investment-grade rating is an impor-
tant element of the financing strategy
• Share buybacks are a complementary tool 
that can be used relative to investment 
opportunities and company valuation.
 Financial Statements on page 258
Comparable ROE
%
T arget
0
3
6
9
12
25242322212019181716
€m
Comparable EBIT
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
25242322212019181716
Net debt/EBITDA (x)€m
Net debt and leverage
Net debt
Net debt/EBITDA
0
1,000
2,000
3,000
4,000
252423222120
1918
1716
-1
0
1
2
3
4
Group financial performance and targets
Business area long-term return targets
The market environment was challenging 
across our businesses in 2025, impacted by 
changes and high uncertainty in global trade 
relations. During the year , we took decisive 
actions to further strengthen our competi-
tiveness. 
A major investment cycle at UPM has 
come to an end. Despite low pulp prices, our 
highly competitive business platform in Uru-
guay performed well. The Leuna biorefinery 
began delivering industrial sugars to cus-
tomers in December and expects to enter the 
market with further commercial products in 
the first half of 2026.
Our focus is on improving performance 
and cash flow, as well as strengthening our 
balance sheet. Our strong asset base enables 
us to capture growth opportunities with low 
capital expenditures.
We aim for earnings growth and attractive returns on capital. In 2025, our comparable EBIT 
decreased by 25% from the previous year in a challenging market.
We deliver sustainable growth and attractive returns over time by combining
agile business operations, disciplined capital allocation and corporate synergies. 
*) ROCE % = Return of capital employed excluding items affecting comparability
**) Free cash flow after investing activities and restructuring costs
***) Shareholdings in UPM Energy valued at fair value
0
5
10
15
20
2524232221
ROCE %*)
T arget7
11 12
6
UPM Energy ***)
6
40
32
14 14
ROCE %*)
T arget
0
10
20
30
40
50
2524232221
18
UPM Adhesive 
Materials
0
5
10
15
20
2524232221
10
7
2
18
ROCE %*)
UPM Fibres
T arget
4
ROCE %*)
UPM Specialty 
Papers 
T arget
16 17 17
0
5
10
15
20
2524232221
11
21 FCF/CE %**)
UPM 
Communication 
Papers
T arget
22
0
10
20
30
40
50
2524232221
12
48
10
34
ROCE %*)
UPM Plywood
11
25
44
22
0
10
20
30
40
50
2524232221
T arget
17 15
Portfolio of attractive businesses
• Leading businesses in growing markets
• World-class performance.
Agile operating model: Our businesses 
operate as separate, market-driven entities 
• High efficiency and agility 
• Differentiated commercial strategies
• Optimal sourcing
• Broad product development opportunities.
Corporate synergies for our businesses
• Competitive and sustainable wood sourc-
ing, forestry and plantation operations
• Efficient global functions
• Technology development and intellectual 
property rights
• Global business platform
• Disciplined and effective capital allocation
• Compliance, the UPM Code of Conduct, 
and a strong UPM brand.
Effective capital allocation
We aim to allocate capital in a balanced way 
by developing the company through focused 
investments, offering attractive shareholder 
distribution and maintaining a strong balance 
sheet. Capital allocation is essential for 
achieving attractive long-term returns and de-
veloping a portfolio of world-class businesses. 
At UPM, capital allocation decisions are 
made at the corporate level:
• Focused investments to grow the company 
and its earnings 
• Attractive dividends, targeting at least half 
of comparable earnings per share over time 
Financial performance and targets Driving long-term value creation
0
5,000
10,000
15,000
20,000
25,000
30,000
24 2520 21 22 2318 1916 17
Enterprise value and cumulative dividends
Cumulative dividend
Market capitalization 
Net debt
€m
5-year share performance and valuation multiples
2025 2024 2023 2022 2021
Share price at Dec. 31, € 24.79 26.56 34.06 34.93 33.46
Comparable EPS, € 1.33 1.74 1.40 3.09 2.22
Dividend per share, € 1.50*) 1.50 1.50 1.50 1.30
Dividend to comparable EPS, % 113 86 107 49 59
Effective dividend yield, % 6.1 5.6 4.4 4.3 3.9
P/E ratio 27.3 32.5 46.8 12.2 13.9
P/BV ratio1) 1.31 1.27 1.63 1.49 1.65
EV /EBITDA ratio2) 12.3 9.8 13.1 8.3 10.2
Market capitalization, € million 13,072 14,165 18,165 18,629 17,8 45
*) 2025: Board’s proposal
1) P/BV ratio = Share price at Dec. 31/Equity per share
2)  EV /EBITDA ratio = (Market capitalization + Net debt)/EBITDA
-6.7% 
Share price 2025
1.50
Dividend proposal, €
per share
Share buy-back program for 6 million 
shares, shares cancelled in May 
160 M€
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
Dividend per share
*Board’s proposal
€ %
0
20
40
60
80
100
24 25*20 21 22 2318 1916 17
Dividend € per share (2025 proposal)
% of comparable EPS
Financial targets
At a business level, we aim for world-class 
performance and attractive returns (ROCE %). 
At the Group level, we are targeting 
growth in comparable EBIT and a return on  
equity (ROE) exceeding 10%. We also aim to 
maintain a strong balance sheet with a net 
debt/EBITDA ratio of 2x or lower . 
UPM Annual Report 2025
24 25
UPM Annual Report 2025  
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
UPM in brief Our businesses SustainabilityOur strategy

Strategic milestones in 2025
The startup of our groundbreaking 
biochemicals refinery is progressing
In brief
• Annual production capacity of 
220,000 tonnes of 100% wood-based 
biochemicals
• Investment estimated at €1,335 million
• Biorefinery expected to reach full 
production and positive EBIT during 
2027
• High safety and sustainability standards 
throughout the value chain
• Certified under the ISCC PLUS, PEFC, 
and FSC™ chains of custody programs.
• Extensive partner network in multiple 
value chains.
The biorefinery will produce a range of 
100% wood-based biochemicals, enabling a 
switch from fossil raw materials to sustaina-
ble alternatives in various applications. 
The valuation of these products is driven 
by their superior technical performance 
and sustainability, which enables consumer 
brands to differentiate themselves in the 
market. The investment opens new markets 
for UPM with large future growth potential.
The industrial-scale biorefinery will 
convert solid wood into next-generation bio-
chemicals: bio-monoethylene glycol (BioMEG) 
and renewable functional fillers (RFF). The 
biorefinery will also produce bio-monopro-
pylene glycol (BioMPG) and industrial sugars. 
End-use segments for renewable glycols 
include textiles, PET bottles, packaging, cool-
ants, composite materials, pharmaceuticals, 
cosmetics, and detergents. Lignin-based RFFs 
are a sustainable alternative to carbon black 
and precipitated silica in many rubber and 
plastic applications.
Production and sales have started
The wood-to-lignin-and-sugar process was 
successfully ramped up and the first com-
mercial deliveries of industrial sugars took 
place in Q4 2025. With the achieved progress 
in the critical first part of the process and the 
advanced status of corrective works in the 
final core processes, production and sales 
of further products, lignin, renewable func-
tional fillers and finally glycols is expected to 
start in 2026.
Commercial interest in the main products 
and sidestreams has continued to be strong, 
with confirmed customer contracts and a 
sales and customer qualification pipeline 
exceeding the annual capacity by multiple 
times. Sales allocation of 2026 volumes has 
started. 
The combination of a sustainable wood 
supply, a unique technology concept, inte-
gration into existing infrastructure at Leuna, 
and proximity to customers will ensure 
competitive operations. 
The value chain’s safety and sustainabil-
ity will meet UPM’s high standards, and the 
strong focus on regional sourcing, espe-
cially of feedstock, will support the market 
valuation.
 UPM Leuna Biorefinery
Our products are uniquely positioned to help our customers and 
major global brands decarbonize their supply of raw materials. 
The proposed Joint Venture represents a decisive response to 
the structural changes in the European graphic paper industry.
UPM has initiated a strategic review of its 
plywood business area to assess options for 
maximizing its long-term potential in an evolv-
ing market environment. 
The review includes a range of possibilities, 
including separation from UPM through divest-
ment,  a partial demerger, or an initial public 
offering. 
The aim is to determine the best path forward 
for the plywood business while creating value for 
UPM’s shareholders. 
The review is expected to be concluded by 
the end of 2026. During the process, UPM will 
remain fully committed to the plywood business 
and its customers.
Strong, customer-focused business 
UPM Plywood is a leader in the European 
market, particularly in the mid-to-high-end 
segment, and is globally recognized as a leader 
in LNG-related plywood applications. 
Its well-invested asset base consists of three 
spruce plywood mills, one spruce veneer mill 
and three birch plywood mills, with a combined 
annual production capacity of 785,000 cubic 
meters. The warehouse and sales network en-
sures efficient distribution and customer service.
UPM Plywood offers a unique portfolio of 
premium materials under the trusted WISA® 
brand. This comprehensive offering is backed 
by strong customer partnerships and a com-
mitment to high-quality service.
The business has demonstrated financial 
resilience across market cycles, consistently 
delivering solid performance and generating 
cash. Its success is driven by commercial and 
operational excellence, as well as a proven 
management team and experienced opera-
tional personnel.
UPM and Sappi sign non-binding letter of 
intent on Joint Venture for graphic papers
The Joint Venture would include the entire 
UPM Communication Papers business, includ-
ing eight paper mills, as well as Sappi’s Euro-
pean graphic paper business, which includes 
four paper mills. The proposed Joint Venture 
would be owned 50/50 by UPM and Sappi, 
and operate as an independent company. 
Benefits of the transaction
The planned Joint Venture would provide 
the best future for the UPM Communication 
Papers business. The transaction would 
create a structurally competitive cost base, 
supplying security to European and global 
customers.
Through strategic reallocation of pro-
duction volumes to the most efficient paper 
machines, the Joint Venture would achieve 
more sustainable capacity utilization and 
stronger operational performance, while 
continuing to serve customers with a broad 
portfolio of graphic paper products.
The Joint Venture is expected to create 
annual synergies estimated at about €100 
million through asset and logistics optimiza-
tion, product portfolio rationalization and 
sourcing efficiency improvements. 
The Joint Venture would rationalize supply 
in an industry burdened by declining demand, 
structural overcapacity and high energy costs. 
It would contribute to a more balanced and 
resilient European market, positioning the 
industry better to withstand market challeng-
es and increasing imports to Europe.
The transaction is expected to have a posi-
tive impact on UPM’s profitability margins, bal-
ance sheet and leverage. UPM would achieve 
a more focused business portfolio operating in 
growth markets and would no longer have di-
rect sales exposure to the declining European 
and North American graphic paper markets.
Negotiations ongoing
Negotiations regarding the details of the 
UPM evaluates strategic alternatives for its plywood business  
Joint Venture are ongoing, and the parties 
expect the definitive agreements to be signed 
during the first half of 2026. The definitive 
agreements require the completion of exter-
nal financing agreements, Sappi shareholder 
approval and other conditions.
The proposed transaction is subject to 
review by the European Commission and 
the relevant merger control, and approval 
by the authorities in other jurisdictions such 
as the US, the UK and China. The parties are 
committed to working with the regulatory 
authorities throughout the review process.  
It is currently expected that the closing 
would take place by the end of 2026, subject 
to regulatory approvals and other closing 
conditions. The Joint Venture would become 
operational upon closing.
 UPM Communication Papers on page 43
  Financial details of the proposed 
Joint Venture page 120
 
UPM Annual Report 2025
26 27
UPM Annual Report 2025  27UPM Annual Report 2025  
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
UPM in brief Our businesses SustainabilityOur strategy

Innovating for impact Accelerating innovation 
through AI
AI is expected to transform the global economy by increasing productivity and accelerating 
the discovery of new ideas. Accordingly, UPM has a comprehensive AI strategy and a 
company-wide AI program to implement selected transformations.  
Innovation plays a key role in ensuring UPM’s ability to grow in the long 
term and deliver consistently strong margins across all businesses.
The strategy sets the direction and roadmap 
for driving the adoption and benefits of AI in 
areas with high-impact potential and value, 
such as increased sales, optimized supply 
chains and improved operational efficiency. 
Launched to accelerate adoption across 
the company, UPM’s AI program delivered 
significant progress in 2025. Guided by four 
core values – growth, efficiency, experience, 
and data quality – the program drives twelve 
high-impact transformations aligned with 
strategic priorities. These transformations en-
able improved customer support, optimized 
operations and enhanced decision-making.
Key achievements include establishing 
the UPM AI Center of Excellence to scale and 
sustain AI capabilities. In June, new UPM 
AI guidelines were introduced to ensure 
the safe, secure and ethical use of AI. These 
guidelines are supported by five principles: 
human-centricity; transparency; account-
ability; data governance; and continuous 
development.
Operational highlights include the launch 
of “Griffy,” an AI-powered corporate chatbot 
that improves access to information and pi-
lots in areas such as automated order intake, 
invoice handling, supplier query processes, 
and maintenance optimization. These initia-
tives enhance productivity, reinvent process-
es and unlock new value for customers and 
employees.
To build AI literacy, UPM launched a com-
pany-wide e-learning course on the basics of 
AI and included aspects of it in mandatory 
compliance training. People leaders received 
guidance on encouraging AI discussions in 
their teams. This guidance is complemented 
by a dedicated portal and practical learning 
sessions.
The AI program demonstrates UPM’s 
dedication to innovation and renewal. By 
combining technology with human ex-
pertise, UPM is developing the systemic 
capabilities necessary for sustainable growth 
and competitiveness in the evolving digital 
landscape.
We focus on ensuring high performance in 
established businesses and creating opportu-
nities in adjacent and new businesses. 
We adopt a structured approach to inno-
vation to strengthen alignment with business 
priorities and future growth. We have intro-
duced a strategic innovation management 
model to improve prioritization, accelerate 
execution and ensure a measurable impact 
across the innovation portfolio through 
strategic alignment. 
In 2025, we spent €404 million (€488 mil-
lion) on research and development, account-
ing for 28.8% (36.1%) of operating cash flow. 
In addition to direct R&D expenditure of 
€60 million (€70 million), the figure includes 
negative operating cash flow, as well as 
capital expenditure for developing business-
es, transformative business prospects and 
digitalization projects. 
Priorities
High performance
• Process optimization and cost of production
• Strong global R&D infrastructure
Sustainability as competitive advantage
• Reduction of emissions, material use and raw 
material footprint
• Sustainable Product Design concept applied 
across all product development projects
Strategic renewal
• Platform and process development and 
renewal
• Extensive partner network and new 
capabilities
Market relevance
• Product development, co-creation with 
customers
• Portfolio growth, including fibre-based 
packaging, replacing plastic and aluminum 
in food packaging and advanced biofuels 
development
Future growth
• Innovations to build and enter new markets
• Decarbonization solutions such as renewable 
chemicals and materials
  Read more on R&D in the Report of 
the Board of Directors on page 250
UPM Annual Report 2025
28 29
UPM Annual Report 2025  
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
UPM in brief Our businesses SustainabilityOur strategy

Risks and opportunities
UPM is exposed to several risks and opportunities in its operating 
environment. Many of these risks and opportunities arise from 
the general political and economic environment, as well as global 
megatrends.
Climate change The transition to a low-carbon economy may cause policy changes and shifts in market preferences, 
standards and technologies. These changes may affect cost structures, the commercial opportunities 
of biomass, and the competitiveness of products, raw materials, industries, and countries. The physical 
impacts of climate change include more frequent and extreme weather conditions such as droughts, floods 
and forest fires, which can disrupt business operations and damage UPM's or suppliers' production assets. 
Damage caused by insects and tree diseases may become more common.
Management: Long-term targets and science-based measures to mitigate global warming through sus-
tainable forestry, reducing emissions and innovating novel products. Enhance biodiversity.
Opportunity: Transition opportunities include those driven by resource efficiency, new technologies, and 
CO2-free electricity, products and services. These may bring us new markets, customers, sources of fund-
ing, and a competitive advantage. Longer forest growing season in the northern hemisphere.
 Sensitivity to pulp and electricity prices on page 123
  Risks in the Report of the Board 
of Directors on page 128
 UPM’s cost structure is presented on page 276
 Main currency exposures are presented on page 314
Cyclical and competitive 
business environment
UPM’s product offering competes in markets where customers have competing alternatives, and shifts in 
supply and demand continuously influence prices. Changes in production capacity, shifts in the supply 
chain, new product or raw material development, and changes in competitor and consumer behavior 
may impact price levels for our products and main inputs, and cause temporary or permanent changes 
in demand. The rapid acceleration of digitalization and e-commerce may expedite the decline in demand 
for communication papers and simultaneously increase demand for sustainable packaging products.
Management: Industry-leading balance sheet. Continuous improvement in competitiveness, resource 
efficiency and customer offering. Responsible operations. Business portfolio development.
Opportunity: The growing need and consumer preference for renewable and recyclable solutions create 
business opportunities and drives demand growth.
Geopolitical and  
economic uncertainty
Currently, high uncertainty relates to intertwining geopolitical and trade tensions between major econo-
mies, particularly to the impacts of the policies and actions of the current U.S. administration and poten-
tial countermeasures by other countries. Russia’s ongoing war in Ukraine, the conflicts in the Middle East, 
and the recent tension over Greenland, continue to cause high uncertainty in the operating environment, 
which may impact economic growth, inflation and trade. These factors challenge the competitiveness 
and predictability of companies with international value chains and operations in several countries. 
T esting relationships between businesses, governments, and society, as well as the growing international 
focus on defense and protectionist trade policies, may stress the economic and political environment, 
causing local challenges to our operations or influencing demand, sales prices, or input costs for our 
products.
Management: Monitoring through international trade associations. Compliance. Continuous improve-
ment in competitiveness. Continuous monitoring of the geopolitical landscape. Disciplined planning and 
selection of investments. Business portfolio development.
Opportunity: Diverse business portfolio, geographical presence and responsible business practices may 
present supply chain optimization or strategic opportunities (incl. M&A) during testing economic times.
Our goal is to increase our earnings and valuation while offering our 
shareholders an attractive dividend. Making more sustainable choices 
increases demand for our products.
Generating shareholder value
Strategic portfolio projects
The announced graphic paper Joint Venture aims to position UPM Communication Papers for continued value creation for its 
customers in a way that benefits UPM's shareholders. UPM Plywood is currently undergoing a strategic review to assess options 
for maximizing the long-term potential and value creation of the business.
An attractive business portfolio to drive growth, profitability and valuation
In the future, UPM’s portfolio would consist of higher-margin businesses in growing markets with a strong track record of realized 
sales growth. We aim for healthy growth and improved long-term profitability, which would also increase the value of our shares. 
Strong balance sheet
Our strong balance sheet mitigates risks and enables us to implement our strategy, even in uncertain times.
Attractive shareholder distribution
We aim to pay attractive dividends, targeting at least half of the comparable earnings per share over time. 
Low-CapEx growth
Our businesses serve growing markets, and our global market presence enables us to capture market opportunities in faster 
growing geographies. Our strong asset base enables us to grow with focused, low-capital steps. These efforts support attractive 
returns on invested capital.
Sustainability at the core
We see sustainability as a key driver of growth and competitiveness. We seize the opportunities presented by the growing 
consumer demand for sustainable choices. Stricter regulations to mitigate climate change and address the plastics challenge 
present opportunities to us. Responsible operations and value chains mitigate risks.
Innovating for the everyday
We drive innovation to create high-value business opportunities in areas such as biochemicals, biofuels and specialty packag-
ing materials. Our strengths include successful commercialization and scaling innovation up to significant volumes. We protect 
our intellectual property.
UPM Annual Report 2025
30 31
UPM Annual Report 2025  
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
UPM in brief Our businesses SustainabilityOur strategy

Geostrategic shifts refers to evolving sources and concentration of geopolitical power. Global rules-based order is increasingly being tested. Con-
frontations may cause rapid unplanned changes in the viability of our long-standing sourcing or sales destinations. Many of our businesses are op-
erating in global marketplaces, and major shocks to fundamental business realities could result in lost customers or suppliers in a country or region.
Management and opportunity: Strong balance sheet. Diverse business portfolio and geographical presence, resilient production footprint.
Biodiversity refers to the variety of species and ecosystems on our planet. Despite ongoing efforts, the UN reports that biodiversity is deteriorating 
worldwide. Our operations are closely linked to biodiversity, and the most significant impacts arise from wood sourcing activities. The deterioration 
of biodiversity may lead to slower forest growth, which may impact the availability of wood and increase its cost for UPM in the long term. Biodiver-
sity loss arising from wood sourcing may result in legal action against UPM or restrictions on wood use.
Management and opportunity: The global 2030 Forest Action Program combines measures on climate, biodiversity, soil, water and social contri-
bution. Biodiversity is essential to maintaining healthy forest growth.
Emerging risks
Changes in policies, 
legislation and stakeholder 
expectations
The strain on natural ecosystems has intensified expectations for companies to provide economic, so-
cial and environmental benefits, and complement the actions of governments. Changes in regulation, 
taxation or subsidies may affect our performance, competitiveness, and the cost and availability of raw 
materials. Unpredictable and rapid changes in policies, such as those in the U.S. or EU, or local legisla-
tion may occur. Environmental regulations may continue to become stricter. As policies, legislation or 
stakeholder expectations change, or as they are applied, additional costs may be imposed on us for 
complying with stricter requirements or for noncompliance.
Management: Responsible operations in the value chain enhance the ability to operate and influence 
long-term business success, including environmental management systems, sustainable forestry and 
compliance.
Opportunity: Creating value for society through our renewable and responsible material and energy 
solutions is an integral part of our strategy. The bioeconomy offers new opportunities for value creation 
and business growth.
Execution of strategic 
investment projects
We invest in selective strategic projects to enable profitable growth. These projects are often large 
and may take several years to complete. They may also involve strategic, technical and operational 
risks. Our biochemical refinery project in Germany utilizes new technology and opens new markets 
for us. The recent high inflation and interest rate environment, construction material price uncertainty, 
availability of skilled labor, and bottlenecks in global logistics and supply chains have introduced new 
challenges to large investment projects.
Management: Strict and continuous operational planning, steering, supervision, quality control, input 
procurement, scheduling, and resource and cost monitoring. Environmental, health, safety, and social 
impact assessments and protocols. Stakeholder engagement.
Opportunity: Carefully selected and implemented growth projects improve our earnings and returns, 
changing the company’s positioning. 
Input price fluctuations on 
the main raw materials and 
services
The main production inputs required for manufacturing our products are wood, fibre, chemicals, energy 
and water. Prices of many of these inputs have been volatile in recent years and are expected to remain 
so in the foreseeable future. Ongoing military conflicts, government protection, geoeconomic rivalry, 
climate change, supply chain disruptions, environmental policies, and other governmental actions or 
restrictions may cause further uncertainty regarding the prices and availability of these inputs, as well 
as logistics services.
Management: Continuously improving resource efficiency, supply chain optimization and diversifica-
tion. New technologies. Long-term supply contracts and reliance on alternative suppliers. Own selected 
forest land and enter into long-term forest management contracts.
Opportunity: The circular economy, continuous improvement in resource efficiency and supply resil-
ience offer a competitive advantage in the face of price fluctuations.
Information technology 
availability and increasing 
cybercrime activity
Our business operations depend on the availability of supporting information systems and network 
services. Unplanned interruptions in critical information system services may disrupt the continuity of 
operations. Information systems may be exposed to cyber intrusions that may result in the leakage of 
sensitive information, violation of data privacy regulations, theft of intellectual property, and the dissem-
ination of AI-generated misinformation or disinformation. Such intrusions may also lead to production 
outages or damage to our reputation.
Management: Systematically maintaining and further developing our cybersecurity protection measures.
Opportunity: Sophisticated IT systems enable efficient operations, optimized performance, new cus-
tomer services and data security.
Operational hazards, health 
and safety issues and 
business interruption
Our operations are exposed to environmental risks, fires, natural disasters, machinery breakdowns, site 
security issues, and occupational health and safety hazards. A major incident at a UPM site or a critical 
part of the supply chain may result in a shutdown or curtail production. Failure to maintain high safety 
management levels may result in physical injury, illness or liability to employees, contractors or third 
parties, causing a business interruption.
Management: Systematically maintaining and further developing our management, safety, security 
and loss prevention programs, as well as our insurance protection and business continuity. Develop-
ment of process safety.
Opportunity: Industry-leading environmental performance provides a competitive advantage. Health 
and safety performance strengthens engagement, efficiency and productivity.
Financial risks Financial risks include foreign exchange and interest rate fluctuations, refinancing challenges, coun-
terparty or credit risks and changes in taxes. Changes to the monetary policies of major central banks 
may significantly impact interest rates. Escalation of global trade tensions could influence currency 
exchange rates. Changes consequently could impact UPM’s cash flow, earnings or balance sheet, and 
may also affect the competitiveness between different currency regions. Our foreign exchange rate risk 
is primarily related to the U.S. dollar, British pound and Japanese yen.
Management: Continuous hedging of net currency exposure. Hedging the balance sheet. Continuously 
improving competitiveness. Disciplined planning and selection of investments. Business portfolio 
development.
Opportunity: A diverse business portfolio and geographical presence, focus on competitiveness and 
strong balance sheet may present strategic opportunities in a changing currency environment.
UPM Annual Report 2025
32 33
UPM Annual Report 2025  
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
UPM in brief Our businesses SustainabilityOur strategy

Our 
businesses
UPM Biorefining   36
UPM Energy   37
UPM Adhesive Materials  38
UPM Specialty Papers   39
UPM Fibres   40
UPM Plywood   42
UPM Communication Papers   43
UPM Annual Report 2025
34 35
UPM Annual Report 2025  UPM Annual Report 202534
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
Our strategyUPM in brief SustainabilityOur businesses

UPM Biorefining is driving the use of renewable, high-value materials in fuels and chemicals. Our biorefineries 
produce advanced biofuels and bio-based chemicals with strong sustainability performance and superior 
properties.
UPM Biorefining
The Lappeenranta refinery in Finland uses 
crude tall oil (CTO), a wood-based biomass 
that does not compete with food production 
or cause changes in land use, to produce 
renewable UPM BioVerno™ diesel and 
naphtha. 
In 2025, we discontinued the planning of 
a second biomass-to-fuels refinery in Rotter-
dam. We are pursuing growth in biofuels by 
developing proprietary technologies that en-
able the use of other advantageous bio-based 
feedstocks. Additionally, we aim to enter 
other high-value fuel market segments.  
In Leuna, Germany, we have built the 
world’s first industrial biorefinery, which 
will produce wood-based glycols, industrial 
sugars and renewable functional fillers (RFF) 
from sustainably sourced hardwood and 
sawmilling residues (page 26). 
The start-up of the Leuna biorefinery 
progressed in 2025. The first commercial 
deliveries of industrial sugars took place in 
the fourth quarter . Production and sales of 
further products, lignin, renewable functional 
fillers and finally glycols is expected to start 
in 2026. This biorefinery is expected to reach 
full production and positive EBIT during 2027.
Our bio-based monoethylene glycols are a 
100% renewable, drop-in alternative to fossil 
glycols. They are used in PET packaging, 
polyester textiles and foams for footwear , 
among other applications. We enter the mar-
ket directly and through downstream part-
UPM Biofuels celebrated ten years of successful operations at its Lappeenranta Bi-
orefinery, the world’s first commercial-scale facility to produce advanced biofuels from 
wood-based residues. Since 2015, the refinery has contributed to decarbonization of the 
transport and petrochemical industries. All products are backed by globally recognized 
sustainability certifications.
In addition to developing our technologies, we are making progress in the technical 
qualification of tall oil-based fuels for aviation use. We are conducting testing with the 
ASTM standardization organization as a necessary step for producing sustainable 
aviation fuels. The registration process and discussions with technical partners in the 
aviation industry are ongoing.
Ten years of pioneering renewable fuel production
nerships, enabling value-chain integration all 
the way to fully bio-based PET and increased 
value generation for UPM.
UPM’s RFF replaces fossil carbon black in 
tires, rubber goods and black plastics. In ad-
dition to significantly reducing CO₂, emissions 
they offer technical advantages such as reduced 
weight and enhanced conductivity. These 
advantages improve the performance and con-
sumer appeal of rubber-based products.
The demand for our renewable portfolio is 
evident in the commercial pipeline, which far 
exceeds the capacity of the Leuna refinery, as 
well as in strategic partnerships spanning the 
packaging, textiles, automotive, and consumer 
goods industries. With our pioneering technolo-
gies and secure, sustainable raw materials, 
UPM Biorefining is well positioned to lead 
the shift from fossil to renewable carbon and 
capture growth in rapidly developing global 
markets. We are leading the transition to an 
industrial bioeconomy as a new growth pillar 
of the chemical industry.
In focus
Key figures 2025
 More information on pages 121–122
 upmbiochemicals.com
 upmbiofuels.com
on Dec. 31
Personnel
504
Annual capacity in tonnes
In operation since 2015
UPM Lappeenranta Biorefinery
130,000
Annual capacity in tonnes
Full capacity expected in 2027
UPM Leuna Biorefinery
220,000
UPM Energy is paving the way for a sustainable future with fossil-free nuclear energy and hydropower. Our portfolio 
is well suited to the evolving electricity market, providing opportunities for value creation in physical markets.
UPM Energy
UPM Energy is the second largest electricity 
producer in Finland and a major player in 
the Nordic electricity markets. Our produc-
tion portfolio consists of our own and co-
owned hydropower plants as well as nuclear 
power shareholdings and is 99% fossil-free. 
We have generated significant added value 
by optimizing our hydro assets in volatile 
markets, which benefits society as a market 
balancer . The nuclear power plants provide 
the power system with a reliable baseload.
UPM is also a major electricity consumer 
with significant demand-side flexibility, 
particularly at its paper mills. We channel 
the value of this flexibility to the markets 
through the UPM Energy control room.
Due to decarbonization and digitalization 
efforts, demand for fossil-free electricity is 
expected to increase significantly in the com-
ing years. The electrification of district and 
industrial heating has resulted in increased 
investment in electric boilers. Demand 
for data centers will grow, driven by the 
adoption of cloud services and generative 
AI. The prospects for power demand growth 
are attractive as the need for reliable and 
flexible energy increases.
In 2025, UPM Energy’s hydropower 
production was close to normal levels. June 
marked TVO's final takeover of the OL3 nu-
clear power unit, which operated smoothly 
in its second full year of continuous commer-
cial production.
As the share of weather-dependent electricity generation grows, the future electricity 
system will require more flexibility. Fluctuations in supply will drive additional demand for 
balancing measures across the grid.
This is managed through multiple marketplaces, where market participants can bid on 
balancing actions by changing either their electricity consumption or supply. Functioning 
electricity markets, combined with clear price signals, incentivize balancing actions.
UPM Energy, the second largest energy producer in Finland, has developed its ca-
pabilities to actively participate in balancing markets through hydropower and storage 
solutions. In this model, hydropower plants and river flow are optimized in combination 
with ultracapacitors, i.e., new electricity storage technology.
Balancing the everyday  
We installed our second ultracapacitor at 
the Kuusankoski hydropower plant, as our 
experience with the first such investment at 
Ontojoki has been excellent. An ultracapac-
itor strengthens the ability of hydropower 
to balance the grid, allowing us to provide 
the market with very fast reserves through 
short-term energy storage. The need for fast 
and flexible balancing power has increased 
rapidly with the growing use of weather-de-
pendent energy sources. The Kuusankoski 
ultracapacitor leverages modern digital 
solutions and automation to optimize the 
performance of the ultracapacitor and hy-
dropower system.   
The most significant development 
regarding our energy assets is the potential 
extension of the operating licenses and 
lifetimes of the OL1 and OL2 nuclear power 
units beyond 2038. UPM Energy is also 
developing wind and solar power projects on 
UPM-owned land.
In focus
-2% -17%
-1.7pp
€m
on Dec. 31
€m
%
Sales
Personnel
Comparable EBIT
Comparable ROCE
615
86
151
5.8
Key figures 2025
 More key figures on page 124
 upmenergy.com
UPM Annual Report 2025
36 37
UPM Annual Report 2025  
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
Our strategyUPM in brief SustainabilityOur businesses

UPM Adhesive Materials drives profitable growth with a value-adding offering, reliable service and optimized 
operations. Focused actions to improve productivity and cost efficiency fuel the business area’s transformation. 
UPM Adhesive Materials
As one of UPM’s global growth engines and 
value creation platforms, UPM Adhesive 
Materials (formerly UPM Raflatac), seeks 
profitable growth by providing value-adding 
sustainable solutions and reliable services 
for enhanced customer experience. In 
addition, we are taking focused actions to 
improve productivity and cost efficiency and 
to optimize our operating platform to boost 
performance and fuel growth in emerging 
markets and high-value product segments.
In June 2025, we renamed our business 
area to UPM Adhesive Materials, support-
ing our strategic direction to expand into 
graphics solutions and specialty tapes. UPM 
Raflatac remains a leading global brand for 
label materials. One example of accelerat-
ing growth beyond label materials was the 
 More key figures on page 125
 upmadhesivematerials.com
acquisition of Metamark, which brought us 
closer to becoming a significant global player 
in the high-value graphics solutions segment.
We consolidated and renewed our operat-
ing platform in Europe to increase scale and 
improve profitability. We closed the Kalten-
kirchen factory in Germany and transferred 
production to our other European sites. 
We decided to convert the Nancy factory in 
France into a slitting and distribution termi-
nal and discontinue label material coating.  
Additionally, we increased our competitive-
ness by reducing fixed and variable costs 
and improving material efficiency. 
To grow profitably in high-growth regions 
and product segments, we invested in:
• a new coating line at the Mills River 
factory in North Carolina, U.S., to increase 
the production capacity of special label 
materials; 
• a state-of-the-art new coating line, as well 
as other facility and material handling 
upgrades, at the Johor Bahru factory in 
Malaysia;
• a new slitting and distribution terminal 
near Hanoi, Vietnam.
We are also exploring expansion opportuni-
ties in India.
Sustainability is key to creating customer 
value. We provide high-performance sustain-
ability solutions for recycling and reducing 
CO2 emissions. In 2025, we announced the 
industry-first integration of label product 
footprint data into quotes, helping convert-
ers make informed choices and reduce Scope 
3 emissions at source.
Despite the high level of competition 
and economic slowdown, we are optimistic 
about the future. We have made significant 
progress on our transformation journey, and 
we expect to see the results going forward. 
We are constantly renewing our operating platform to drive growth in the high-growth 
regions and product segments. In 2025, we expanded our special label production and ca-
pabilities in North America by investing in a new coating line at our Mills River factory. Our 
special label materials are designed for demanding applications beyond standard consum-
er labeling, such as pharmaceutical uses.  
Investments in Malaysia and Vietnam will accelerate our growth in the rapidly growing 
Southeast Asian market, which is currently one of the fastest-developing markets for pres-
sure-sensitive labels. We are also exploring growth opportunities in India, where consumer 
demand for packaged goods is increasing.
Driving segment and market growth
In focus
+6% -7%
-4.0pp
€m
on Dec. 31
€m
%
Sales
Personnel
Comparable EBIT
Comparable ROCE
1,655
3,287
124
14.4
Key figures 2025
UPM Specialty Papers is a global leader in label papers and a growing supplier of flexible packaging papers. Our 
business is driven by global megatrends. We are well postioned for growth. 
UPM Specialty Papers
UPM Specialty Papers has a long history of 
serving customers in the label and APAC fine 
paper markets. Thanks to our global reach, 
we can meet the needs of global customers 
while providing local services and expertise. 
Our customers recognize us for our reliabili-
ty, consistent quality and responsive, profes-
sional team. We actively collect feedback to 
strengthen customer relationships. In 2025, 
we achieved an all-time high score in our 
customer satisfaction survey.
We have a strong foothold in Europe 
and the growing Asia-Pacific markets, and 
we continue to strengthen our presence in 
the Americas. We are a global leader in the 
label paper market and aim to continue 
growing. In the APAC fine paper market, 
we focus on the most profitable market seg-
ments where sustainability adds value. 
We have significant growth opportu-
nities in flexible packaging, where our 
expertise in producing demanding pack-
aging papers, as well as our strong R&D 
capabilities, have established us as a viable 
partner for creating recyclable, fibre-based 
packaging solutions. This is a market with 
high entry barriers and long entry times. 
There are significant growth opportunities 
and promising ongoing projects with our 
customers. In 2025, we introduced several 
innovative co-created solutions with part-
ners and brands. 
Although long-term megatrends such 
as e-commerce, sustainability and urbani-
zation continue to drive demand for labels 
Thanks to a collaboration with UPM Specialty Papers and EvoPak, Walkers Chocolates 
has replaced plastic wrappers with recyclable paper packaging. The new packaging 
helps Walkers Chocolates’ achieve its sustainable packaging ambition while reducing 
plastic usage across their site. 
The new wrapper combines UPM’s barrier base paper with EvoPak’s special coating, 
making it suitable for chocolate and other demanding end uses. It keeps the choco-
late fresh and meets the demanding standards for quality. The packaging is designed 
for recycling in existing fibre recycling systems and supports a circular economy.
Products from Walkers Chocolates that are packaged using this solution are 
already available at multiple UK retailers and in international markets.
 More key figures on page 125
 upmspecialtymaterials.com
Recyclable wrapper for everyday treats
and packaging, the markets were challeng-
ing in 2025 due to uncertainty surrounding 
U.S. tariffs and weak consumer confidence. 
This resulted in muted demand. Many of 
the markets served by UPM Specialty Papers 
experienced overcapacity, putting pressure 
on operating rates and sales prices.
However , through diligent margin 
management and cost savings, we were able 
to maintain profitability and capitalize on 
opportunities in unbalanced markets. In 
2025, we announced an investment in the 
UPM Tervasaari PM5 project, which will 
improve production efficiency, safety and 
our ability to serve customers in demanding 
specialty grades.
As the shift to renewable and recycla-
ble packaging continues, we can help our 
customers comply with the Packaging and 
Packaging Waste Regulation and the Euro-
pean Union Deforestation Regulation.
In focus
-10% +9%
+3.8pp
€m
on Dec. 31
€m
%
Sales
Personnel
Comparable EBIT
Comparable ROCE
1,315
1,820
147
20.9
Key figures 2025
UPM Annual Report 2025
38 39
UPM Annual Report 2025  
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
Our strategyUPM in brief SustainabilityOur businesses

UPM Fibres is a leading global multifibre pulp producer, providing high-quality hardwood and softwood pulp. 
Our strong competitive edge comes from sustainable forestry operations, efficient sawmills, state-of-the-art 
pulp mills, logistics and customer-centricity.
UPM Fibres
Our strategy is based on two sustainable 
pulp production platforms. The southern 
platform uses plantation-grown eucalyptus 
-9% -47%
-3.3pp
€m
on Dec. 31
€m
%
Sales
Personnel
Comparable EBIT
Comparable ROCE
3,407
2,653
283
4.2
Key figures 2025 to produce hardwood pulp. The northern 
platform uses conifers to produce softwood 
pulp and birch to produce hardwood pulp. 
The northern platform also has sawn timber 
operations, which are an integral part of our 
value chain.
Fibres South consists of two large cut-
ting-edge pulp mills, eucalyptus plantations, 
seedling nurseries and efficient logistics in 
Uruguay. In 2025, the UPM Paso de los Toros 
mill, our historic milestone investment, had 
its first full year of production at nominal ca-
pacity. Another major step forward occurred 
when the railway from Paso de los Toros to 
the port of Montevideo became fully opera-
tional, reducing costs and emissions.
Production and cost optimization at the 
UPM Paso de los Toros mill have progressed 
according to plan. We will achieve further 
improvements in competitiveness by elim-
inating bottlenecks and optimizing wood 
sourcing as the latest plantations reach 
harvesting age.
Fibres North comprises three pulp mills, 
three sawmills, and wood sourcing and 
forestry operations in Finland. In 2025, we 
focused on ensuring profitability in chal-
lenging pulp markets with high wood prices. 
Thanks to carefully targeted investments, 
our northern mills are well maintained and 
efficient. Our flexible operating model and 
cost-efficiency measures helped us success-
fully manage margins.
A strategic highlight was the establishment 
of a long-term partnership with Versow-
ood, Finland’s largest private producer and 
processor of sawn timber (on the left). This 
partnership strengthens the cost-effectiveness 
of wood supply to our pulp mills in tight Nor-
dic markets. Following the agreement, UPM 
remains one of Finland's largest sawn timber 
producers.
UPM Fibres has direct pulp and timber 
sales in all key markets, supported by dedi-
cated customer service teams, regional R&D 
centers and technical support. In 2025, we 
sharpened our commercial strategy and took 
further measures to increase customer-cen-
tricity in our pulp business. 
According to a detailed third-party cus-
tomer survey conducted in November with 
customers representing 64% of UPM Pulp 
sales, UPM Pulp maintains exceptional levels 
of customer trust, relationship quality and 
regulatory credibility. Customers recognize 
UPM as a sustainably minded, quality-driv-
en premium supplier with strengths firmly 
anchored in people, expertise, and operational 
reliability. 98% of these customers have a posi-
tive or very positive impression of UPM Pulp.
In an increasingly competitive mar-
ket, UPM Pulp continues to strengthen its 
position as a leading global pulp supplier by 
enhancing how we engage with customers, 
notably through implementing a key account 
UPM and Versowood, Finland's largest private producer and processor of sawn timber, have agreed 
to a long-term partnership that will strengthen UPM’s cost-effective wood sourcing in Finland. 
Under the agreement, Versowood supplies UPM with high-quality pulpwood and sawmill 
by-products, which allows UPM to strengthen its wood supply for its pulp mills in the tight Finn-
ish market. In turn, UPM supplies Versowood's sawmills with logs acquired through UPM’s own 
wood sourcing operations.
The wood market in Finland remains tight due to halted imports from Russia, an increased 
use of wood for energy production, and increased demand driven by investments in wood-using 
industry. These factors are expected to keep raw material costs elevated.
As part of the agreement, UPM sold its Korkeakoski sawmill in Juupajoki, Finland to Versow-
ood and received a minority shareholding in Versowood in return. The Korkeakoski sawmill 
produces 350,000 cubic meters of high-quality pine sawn timber annually for the domestic 
market and export. 
As of the beginning of 2026, UPM will operate three sawmills in Lappeenranta, Pori, and 
Pietarsaari, remaining one of Finland's biggest sawn timber producers.
UPM and Versowood enter into a long-term partnership
In focus
management process, creating an impact-
ful and targeted marketing strategy and 
designing a market-leading digital customer 
journey.
An important milestone during the year 
was UPM Pulp becoming the second largest 
eucalyptus pulp supplier in North America, 
a highly competitive market with significant 
growth potential.
Medium- to long-term growth in pulp 
demand is notably driven by the megatrends 
of urbanization and a growing middle class, 
which are expected to increase global tissue 
paper consumption. Another growth driver 
is replacing plastics with fibre-based solu-
tions for packaging.
As global demand for wood-based 
products increases, we can create additional 
value by selling surplus bio-based energy 
and side streams from the pulping process, 
such as lignin and crude tall oil, which the 
emerging wood-based industries use as raw 
materials.
Being a leader in sustainability gives 
UPM Fibres a competitive advantage and 
helps our customers reach their ambitious 
sustainability targets. We continue to be 
a frontrunner in preparing for the EU De-
forestation Regulation, enhancing tracea-
bility capabilities to ensure our customers 
will be ready to comply with the legislation 
when it takes effect.
Also, in 2025, we calculated the carbon 
footprints of each of our five pulp mills and 
seven products, providing our customers 
with transparent and relevant information 
about carbon emissions.
 More key figures on page 124
 upmpulp.com
 upmtimber.com
At the end of 2025, we owned 917,000 
hectares of forest land in Finland, Uruguay 
and the U.S. Most of this land is in Finland, 
totaling around 522,000 hectares. In 
Uruguay, we own about 319,000 hectares 
of eucalyptus plantations, grasslands 
and conservation areas. In the U.S., we 
have 76,000 hectares of forest. We also 
lease about 177,000 hectares in Uruguay 
and manage nearly 1.7 million hectares of 
private forests in Finland.
Three of our four modern tree nurseries 
are in Uruguay, and one is in Finland.
Our commercial forests and tree planta-
tions are a strategic choice for us. In 2025, 
the value of our forests and plantations, 
including land, exceeded €3.5 billion.
We source wood as a raw material for 
our sustainable and recyclable products 
from 12 countries. Approximately 30% of 
our annual global wood demand comes 
from wood harvested from our own and 
leased forests and plantations. This 
amounts to 7.8 million cubic meters of our 
total consumption of 27.7 million cubic 
meters. We buy wood from approximately 
13,000 private forest owners in Finland.
We source wood in Central Europe for 
paper mills and the new Leuna Biorefinery. 
Paper mills mainly use spruce as a raw 
material. The main raw material for the 
biorefinery is beech from private forest 
owners.
Our business is based on the use of for-
est biomass. We adhere to the same strict 
sustainability standards wherever we oper-
ate. Good forest management allows us to 
increase the use of forests while strength-
ening carbon stocks and biodiversity.
 Sustainable forestry on page 50
Forests and plantations drive 
sustainable growth
UPM Annual Report 2025
40 41
UPM Annual Report 2025  
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
Our strategyUPM in brief SustainabilityOur businesses

UPM Plywood is committed to providing high-quality products and exceptional customer service. 
We focus on optimizing our operational capabilities and exploring new growth opportunities.
UPM Plywood
UPM Communication Papers is known for its diverse product portfolio, high quality, global reach and commitment 
to sustainability. We provide customer-focused solutions and proactively adapt to evolving markets.
UPM Communication Papers
UPM Communication Papers is one of the 
world’s leading producers of graphic papers. 
Our global presence, diverse product offer-
ings and ability to deliver large volumes 
foster long-term customer relationships. 
Our competitive edge stems from this strong 
foundation.
Proactive asset management and the 
flexible use of our global network of mills 
ensure our competitiveness in a dynamic 
market. In 2025, we ceased production in Et-
tringen, Germany, and in Kaukas, Finland, to 
align capacity with profitable demand. Other 
productivity measures were implemented 
throughout the organization.
We saw unprecedented uncertainty in 
2025, with tariff disputes disrupting global 
trade. European markets declined signifi-
cantly. Our higher expectations for North 
American markets were not met due to 
tariffs and unfavorable currency rates.
Our focused strategy drives value 
creation across paper categories and key 
markets, prioritizing areas with attractive 
margins and growth potential. Our com-
mitment to paper and our wide range of 
products are key strengths. Our reputation 
as the most reliable partner is solidified by 
Our loyal long-term customers include mar-
ket-leading distributors and industrial users 
who value high-quality products, reliable 
plywood and veneer supplies, and profes-
sional customer service.
UPM Plywood is the largest plywood pro-
ducer in Europe. Although market conditions 
improved slightly compared to the previous 
year , we were unable to take full advantage 
our consistently high customer satisfaction 
rates.
In December , UPM and Sappi signed a 
non-binding letter of intent on a Joint Ven-
ture for graphic papers (page 27).
Our new Climate Action Roadmap under-
scores the importance of sustainability. This 
roadmap sets out actions to reduce emissions 
further (below). 
of it due to strikes at our Finnish mills in 
the spring. However , our operating rates 
surpassed those of 2024 in the second half of 
the year .
All key end uses will continue to grow in 
the medium term. To expand our portfolio, 
we are exploring new regions, product 
categories and wood species to complement 
spruce and birch. With our WISA®-Birch 
plywood, we are a leading supplier of LNG 
cargo containment systems, accounting for 
more than half of the current fleet. We fur-
ther strengthened our position by launching 
a new product this year , WISA®-LNG Spruce 
plywood. We developed and tested this 
innovation extensively in collaboration with 
Gaztransport & Technigaz, a global leader in 
the transport and storage of liquified gases.
In September , UPM initiated a strategic 
review of the plywood business to identify 
ways to maximize its long-term potential 
(page 27). The review includes a range of 
possibilities, including a separation from 
UPM through divestment, partial demerg-
er or an initial public offering. Our solid 
profitability provides a strong foundation 
We introduced spruce plywood to meet the growing global demand for materials used 
in LNG carriers. The new product complements our existing WISA®-LNG birch plywood 
portfolio and enables the use of lighter spruce without compromising the stringent 
requirements for insulation in LNG cargo tanks.
WISA®-LNG-Spruce plywood, developed and tested in collaboration with GTT, a 
global leader in LNG transport and storage technology, offers excellent insulation 
properties, durability, dimensional stability, and lightweight construction, all of which 
are critical for maintaining ultra-cold temperatures during transport. 
The product incorporates WISA® BioBond technology, replacing at least 50% of the 
adhesives fossil-based phenol with lignin, reducing the product’s carbon footprint.
Expanding solutions with spruce LNG plywood 
In 2025, we launched a new rail logistics 
concept that combines reliability, efficiency 
and sustainability. In partnership with Rail 
Cargo Group, the concept optimizes flows to 
and from our mills in southern Germany by 
using block trains instead of single wagons. 
The result is faster transit, improved predict-
ability and greater resilience in our supply 
chain. In North America, we renewed our 
contract with the primary carrier and estab-
lished new port contracts, strengthening our 
long-term presence on the continent.
These actions demonstrate our commit-
ment to helping customers reduce their 
emissions and meet consumers' growing 
demand for sustainable products. The sale 
of surplus CO2 certificates has been an 
important source of revenue. Thanks to 
our dedicated sustainability efforts, focus 
on high-value segments and strong market 
presence, we are well positioned to create 
value in challenging paper markets for years 
to come. 
for operating as a standalone business if it is 
determined that this is the best path forward 
and in the shareholders’ best interests.
In 2025, we continued to develop our mill 
operations by using data and AI to opti-
mize and improve production. We are also 
assessing the broader use of new digital tools 
across our processes, from production to the 
customer interface. Digital tools will further 
improve quality and productivity.
With one of the industry’s largest R&D 
organizations, we have a key competitive 
advantage in meeting customers’ growing 
sustainability expectations. Our patented 
WISA BioBond gluing technology replaces 
half the phenol derived from fossil mate-
rials with lignin derived from wood. WISA 
plywood products store more than five times 
the amount of biogenic CO2 during their life 
cycle than fossil CO2 is generated during the 
production and supply chain.
In focus
-5% -15%
-1.8pp
€m
on Dec. 31
€m
%
Sales
Personnel
Comparable EBIT
Comparable ROCE
409
1,542
35
15.4
Key figures 2025
-16% -34%
-5.9pp
€m
on Dec. 31
€m
%
Sales
Personnel
Comparable EBIT
Comparable ROCE
2,493
4,728
181
17.8
Key figures 2025
 More key figures on page 126
 wisaplywood.com
Photo: GTT – Roland Mouron
 More key figures on page 126
 upmpaper.com
A key element of the climate action roadmap is the clearly defined climate target. By 
2030, the average fossil CO₂ emissions from operations and externally sourced energy at 
European sites will be reduced to ≤100 kg per tonne of paper, more than a 70% reduction 
compared to the 2023 baseline year.
We accelerate our shift to renewable energy with long-term wind power purchase agree-
ments and power-to-heat solutions. Each mill has a tailored activity plan contributing to the 
overall target. We are also producing electricity using steam generators and biogenic wood 
or bark residues.
New climate target on the decarbonization journey
In focus
UPM Annual Report 2025
42 43
UPM Annual Report 2025  
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
Our strategyUPM in brief SustainabilityOur businesses

Sustainability
Value from sustainability   46
Our 2030 sustainability targets   47
Actions for the environment 
Sustainable forestry   50
Enhancing biodiversity   52
Committed to climate action   54
T oward CO2-free energy   56
Responsible water management   59
Advancing the circular bioeconomy   60
Creating value for people and society
Active dialogue with stakeholders   62
People and culture   66
A diverse and inclusive working culture   70
Safety and well-being   72
Collaborating on human rights   74
Committed to compliance   76
Ensuring a sustainable supply chain   80
Contributing to society through taxes   82
Our societal and environmental impacts   84
UPM Annual Report 2025
44 45
UPM Annual Report 2025  44 UPM Annual Report 2025
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
Our strategyUPM in brief Our businesses Sustainability

Our commitments
We respect international agreements, including 
the UN Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO 
Declaration on Fundamental Principles and 
Rights at Work, and the OECD Guidelines for 
Multinational Enterprises.
We are committed to creating value by using 
sustainable and renewable resources, reducing 
our environmental footprint, and enhancing our 
positive societal impact. 
At UPM, we address some of the world’s 
biggest challenges, including resource 
scarcity, climate change, biodiversity loss, 
and increasing inequality. Setting ambitious 
long- and short-term targets, taking tangible 
actions and ensuring transparent reporting 
are key to managing sustainability.
Value from sustainability
Our strategy is based on the versatile use of renewable wood 
biomass and is driven by a commitment to sustainability. 
Our priorities
Enhancing biodiversity and climate 
actions
Biodiversity efforts are embedded across all 
areas of our operations. Forests and plantations, 
stream waters, and production sites are the key 
focus areas of our biodiversity initiatives.
Our approach to climate change mitigation is 
reflected in our strategy, business-specific road-
maps, investment planning, daily operations, 
financing, and management remuneration. The 
most impactful action is minimizing the use of 
fossil fuels and raw materials.
Enhancing our social responsibility and 
human rights work
Addressing human rights is the basis of our oper-
ations. Continuous dialogue with our stakehold-
ers is an important part of this work. Building and 
maintaining good relations with and supporting 
the vitality of local communities close to our 
operations are essential to our success. Our busi-
ness relies on thriving communities.
Creating value for customers
We create value for our customers by using 
sustainable and renewable raw materials. Most 
of our products help mitigate climate change by 
replacing fossil-based products and materials 
with renewable alternatives.
Transparent governance 
The UPM Code of Conduct and the UPM 
Sustainability Policy Statement, along with 
our values, form a solid foundation for our 
Our 2030 sustainability targets
To steer our sustainability actions and imple-
ment our strategy, we have established sev-
eral sustainability focus areas with targets 
and key performance indicators for 2030.
These areas are reviewed annually based 
on the strategy and results of the double ma-
teriality assessment (DMA), which identifies 
how the company’s activities affect people 
and the environment, as well as their impact 
on the company’s financial performance. The 
DMA also identifies sustainability-related 
risks and opportunities for the company.
The Group Executive Team approves the 
focus areas, and the Board of Directors’ Au-
dit Committee reviews them. All businesses, 
functions, production sites, and forest units 
set their own targets in line with Group-level 
targets where appropriate, and develop and 
implement actions to achieve them.
Our sustainability targets positively 
contribute to achieving the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals. We have selected the six 
goals and 12 targets that are most relevant to 
us based on where we can have the greatest 
impact, either by minimizing our negative 
impacts or increasing our positive impacts 
on people, societies, and the environment. 
Others are also relevant, but to a lesser 
extent. 
Climate change mitigation
We focus strongly on contributing to climate 
change mitigation. We have SBTi-approved 
targets for reducing fossil CO2 emissions 
from our combustion processes (Scope 1), 
purchased electricity and heat (Scope 2), and 
sourced materials and logistics (Scope 3). 
Our Scope 1 target is supported by targets 
to increase energy efficiency, use biomass-
based fuels, and phase out coal and peat use. 
We have also set targets to promote climate-
positive land use and a climate-positive 
product portfolio.
Economic 
Focus area
Key performance  
indicator 2030 target
Contribution  
to the SDGs 2025 result
Profit
Creating value to 
shareholders
Comparable EBIT  
 
Comparable EBIT growth 
through focused top-line 
growth and margin expansion 
(continuous)
25% decrease to €921 million 
(1,224 million)
Comparable ROE 10% (continuous) 6.5% (8.3%)
Net debt/EBITDA 2 times or less (continuous) 2.29 times (1.66)
Governance 
Ensuring accountability and 
compliance
Participation in UPM Code of 
Conduct training
100% (continuous)
   
94% (99%) of active employees 
completed the training 1)
Responsible sourcing 
Adding value through 
responsible business 
practices
UPM spend covered by UPM 
Supplier and Third-Party Code 
80% (continuous)
   
86% (91%)
Strategic, critical and high 
sustainability risk supplier spend 
covered by EcoVadis assessment 
indicating low sustainability risk
100% 
   
89% (86%)
CO2 emissions from materials and 
logistics (Scope 3), compared to 
2018
-30% -22% (-22%) compared to 2018
1) Percentage of active employees completed the new UPM Code of Conduct training since September 2025, excl. the company UPM Adhesive Materials acquired in 2025.
Goal 6:  
Clean water and sanitation  
(T arget: 6.3)
Goal 7:  
Affordable and clean energy  
(T argets: 7.2 and 7.3)
Goal 8:  
Decent work and economic growth  
(T argets: 8.2, 8.5 and 8.8)
Goal 12:  
Responsible consumption  
and production  
(T argets: 12.2, 12.4 and 12.5)
Goal 13:  
Climate action  
(T arget: 13.1)
Goal 15:  
Life on land  
(T argets: 15.2 and 15.5)
  Our 2030 sustainability targets and 
progress in 2025 on the following pages 
 Committed to compliance on page 76  
 Sustainability Statement on pages 133–249 
 Our transition plan on page 156
decision-making, management, and operations. 
The Policy Statement defines our approach to 
the governance of sustainability-related topics, 
and how our environmental and societal perfor-
mance is assessed, managed, and continuous-
ly improved. 
The UPM Supplier and Third-Party Code 
defines the minimum level of performance 
required of UPM suppliers and third-party inter-
mediaries, including agents, consultants, advis-
ers, joint venture partners, and local partners or 
distributors acting on our behalf. 
Management
The Group Executive T eam is responsible for 
managing sustainability, setting the course of 
action and guiding development. The Board 
of Directors oversees UPM’s key sustainabil-
ity focus areas and targets. Businesses and 
functions implement and carry out the everyday 
tangible actions. 
UPM Annual Report 2025
46 47
UPM Annual Report 2025  
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
Our strategyUPM in brief Our businesses Sustainability

Environmental
Focus area
Key performance  
indicator 2030 target
Contribution  
to the SDGs 2025 result
Forestry
Ensuring sustainable land use
Climate-positive land use in UPM's 
own and leased forests
Forests as carbon sinks 
(continuous)  
Five-year annual average 
carbon sink was approx. -1.9 Mt 
of CO2 equivalents
Share of certified fibre 1) 100% 90% (88.5%)
Biodiversity
Enhancing biodiversity
Net-positive impact on forest 
biodiversity and developing a 
monitoring system 2)
Positive development 
(continuous)  
Overall positive development 
measured
Obstacle-free streams3 ) 500 km 323 km (287 km) reached
Climate
Creating climate solutions 
and working towards carbon 
neutrality
Fossil CO2 emissions from UPM's 
on-site combustion and purchased 
energy (Scope 1 and 2), compared 
to 2015
-65% -58% (-50%) compared to 2015 
and -15% compared to 2024
Coal and peat usage in on-site 
energy generation
0 -5% compared to 2024
Annual energy efficiency 
improvement
1% (continuous) Not achieved
Share of renewable fuels 70% (continuous) 81% (80%)
Acidifying flue gases (NO X/SO2) for 
a UPM average product, compared 
to 2015
-20% -20% (-19%)
Water
Using water responsibly
Chemical oxygen demand (COD) for 
a UPM average product, compared 
to 20084 )
-40% -43% (-44%)
Wastewater volume for a UPM 
average product, compared to 
20084 )
-30% -17% (-16%)
Nutrients used at effluent treatment 
from recycled sources4 )
100% 41% (33%)
Waste
Promoting material efficiency 
and circular bioeconomy – 
reduce, renew, reuse, recycle  
and recover
Process waste sent to landfills or to 
incineration without energy recovery
0 4% increase compared to 2024, 
82% (83%) of UPM’s process 
waste recovered or recycled
Product stewardship
T aking care of the entire 
lifecycle
Climate-positive product portfolio Continuous Decarbonization solutions: 7% 
of sales
Development of new products and 
services with contribution to SDGs
Continuous
 
Developing UPM Circular 
Renewable Black™ and 
collaboration for paper-based 
packaging solutions
Share of applicable products eligible 
for ecolabeling out of UPM sales
100% 89% (89%)
1) Forest management certification 
2) Covers UPM's own forests in Finland and UPM's land in Uruguay   
3) Relevant for Finland, based on year 2015
4) Relevant for pulp and paper production 
Focus area
Key performance  
indicator 2030 target
Contribution  
to the SDGs 2025 result
Continuous learning and 
development 
Enabling continuous 
professional development for 
high performance, growth and 
future employability
Goal setting discussions are 
held and development plans are 
created for employees
100% completion 
rate
86% (85%) of employees completed individual 
goal setting or annual discussion, 81% (78%) of 
employees had a development plan documented
Employee perception of good 
opportunities to learn and grow
Clearly above 
benchmark
In the Employee Engagement Survey average 
score of 65 (65). Below global average 
benchmark by 8 points.
Responsible leadership
Emphasizing value-based and 
inspiring leadership and integrity
Employee engagement Clearly above 
benchmark
In the Employee Engagement Survey average 
score of 67 (70). Below global average 
benchmark by 8 points.
Diversity and inclusion
Developing an organizational 
culture and workplace to ensure 
a diverse and inclusive working 
environment for business 
success
Employees' sense of belonging Among the top 
10% of benchmark 
companies 
In the Employee Engagement Survey average 
score of 67 (68). Below top 10% benchmark 
companies by 13 points.
Continuous improvement in female 
representation in professional 
and managerial roles. Developing 
leadership and decision-making 
capabilities with increased diversity
40% female 
representation
35.4% (34.5%)
Diversity and inclusion initiative Continuous Dialogue continued on developing inclusive 
behaviors. Implemented Safe Contact concept. 
Gender pay gap closed. 
Fair rewarding
Ensuring fair, equitable and 
competitive rewarding for all 
employees
Employees’ pay meeting at least 
local living wage: implementing a 
yearly review
Continuous Company-wide review done considering the 
threshold of typical family for local living 
wage. Pay adjustments implemented to close 
identified pay gaps related to local living wage. 
Gender pay equity for all 
employees: implementing a yearly 
review process to identify and 
close unexplained pay gaps
Continuous Company-wide review done, and pay 
adjustments implemented to close identified, 
statistically significant unexplained gaps related 
to gender. 
Safe and healthy working 
environment 
Ensuring the safety and health 
of our employees, contractors 
and the local communities close 
to our operations
Fatalities or serious accidents in 
UPM operations
0 (continuous) 0 (0) fatal accidents, 2 (3) serious accidents
T otal recordable injury frequency 
(TRIF), including contractors
<2  TRIF 6.4 (6.1) for UPM workforce and 5.0 (5.1) 
including contractors
Process safety integrated in safety 
management
All sites and 
businesses 
Process safety action plan implementation 
and competence development continued in all 
business areas
Employees’ sense of worklife 
balance
Among the top 
10% of benchmark 
companies 
In the Employee Engagement Survey average 
score of 73 (72). Below top 10% benchmark 
companies by 7 points.
Absenteeism rate <2% 4.2% (4.2%)
Community involvement
Ensuring local commitment and 
positive impact on communities
Assessment of quality of 
community relationships and 
define measures at relevant sites
Continuous A new company-wide standard for 
community engagement established 
introducing unit specific assessment of 
community relationships. Implementation and 
communication will continue in 2026.
Long-term initiative(s) that impact 
their mill communities defined in 
line with the UPM Share and Care 
Program
All businesses 
(continuous)
Supported local initiatives focusing on youth, 
education and climate and biodiversity 
primarily in UPM's main operating countries. 
Support for global humanitarian and child 
welfare organizations continued, especially for 
children and families impacted by conflicts.
Social
UPM Annual Report 2025
48 49
UPM Annual Report 2025  
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
Our strategyUPM in brief Our businesses Sustainability

Sustainable forestry
Our business is based on sustainable forest management. We grow and 
harvest wood to produce renewable materials and products.
Forests and wood-based products play a 
unique role in mitigating climate change 
and preserving biodiversity. Well-managed 
forests and plantations provide a sustainable 
and efficient way to meet the growing global 
demand for fibre. Forestry also generates 
wealth and prosperity for local communities.
  Sustainability Statement, ESRS E4 
Biodiversity and ecosystems on page 188 
 Ensuring a sustainable supply chain on page 80
UPM forests and plantations
 2008 2025
Forest and plantation land, own and leased (1,000 ha) 1,012 1,094
Forest growth (million m 3) 4.3 9.9
Wood harvested from UPM forests and plantations (million m 3) 2.2 8.5
Value of forests and plantations, including land (€m) 1,270 3,552
Facts and figures
Globally, about 141,000 hectares (15%) of UPM’s own forest land is protected or 
in restricted use. Protected areas include valuable habitats, natural forests, and 
other important areas such as wetlands or culturally significant sites.
All UPM-owned forests and plantations are certified or in the process of being 
certified if the site is new. In 2025, 91% of our forests were double-certified by the 
FSC™ and PEFC, and 8% were certified by the PEFC (SFI).
Our FSC™ group certification schemes in Finland and Uruguay provide small 
forest owners with access to certification. In 2025, UPM’s FSC™ group certifica-
tion covered approximately 582,000 hectares in Finland and 9,000 hectares in 
Uruguay. 
In focus
Our priorities
Forest Action Program
Our global forest responsibility program, 
Forest Action, outlines an ambitious agenda 
to maximize the positive impact of our forestry 
operations. The program includes targets and 
actions related to climate, biodiversity, soil, water, 
and social contribution.
Climate
The annual carbon sink of UPM-owned forests 
in Finland and the U.S., as well as the plantations 
on our own and leased land in Uruguay, has av-
eraged -1.9 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent over 
the past five years. The Natural Resources Insti-
tute Finland calculates the carbon sink annually, 
and the calculation methods are updated with 
the latest scientific developments.
Biodiversity 
In Finland and the U.S., we monitor and enhance 
biodiversity in the protected areas and com-
mercial forests we own. In Uruguay, we monitor 
and enhance biodiversity in conservation areas 
around the plantations. 40% of the land area 
we own in Uruguay is not planted and includes 
conservation areas and land in traditional use 
such as cattle grazing.
Water and soil 
Our harvesting practice is to leave buffer zones 
untouched along watercourses. In Finland, we 
update our forest inventory systems annually 
to include the locations of valuable habitats 
and waterbodies in relation to wood harvest-
ing activities. In Uruguay, we monitor water 
quality near our plantations. Apart from tree 
nurseries, the plantations are not irrigated. We 
minimize our impact on soil and water in boreal 
and temperate forests by increasing the use 
of continuous cover forestry in peatlands and 
monitoring soil damage.
Social contribution and stakeholder 
engagement
We provide jobs related to forests and forestry 
in rural areas, on-the-job training as well as 
learning opportunities for children and young 
people. We have a long-standing collabora-
tion with academic institutions and NGOs in 
sustainable forestry. 
We work with stakeholders and NGOs in Uru-
guay, and with local indigenous communities in 
the U.S. We also work with FSC™ and PEFC to 
develop certification schemes and promote the 
use of certified wood globally.  
Our commitments
Sustainable forest management
Our third-party certified wood origin monitor-
ing systems ensure full traceability. We do not 
engage in deforestation, nor do we source wood 
from tropical rainforests. We do not establish 
plantations by converting natural forests or 
in areas where water is scarce. We do not use 
genetically modified trees. We require our sup-
pliers and contractors to implement responsible 
practices in accordance with the UPM Supplier 
and Third-Party Code, company policies and 
rules, and the respective forest certification 
chain-of-custody standards.
Climate-positive forestry
We ensure that our forests and plantations 
grow more than they are harvested, and that 
they continue to act as carbon sinks. We ensure 
forest regeneration. Our carefully selected tree 
seedlings are important for producing wood 
raw material and for carbon sequestration, and 
increasing resilience to climate change.
Enhancing biodiversity
Forest biodiversity is critical to mitigating the 
effects of climate change and preserving species 
and habitats. We are committed to enhancing 
biodiversity in Finland, Uruguay, and the U.S., 
where we own forests and plantations. We ensure 
that our forests remain resilient and diverse in 
changing climate conditions so that they contin-
ue to thrive for future generations.
Respect for human rights and indigenous 
peoples
We respect the human rights and the rights of 
indigenous peoples in all areas of our operations.
Actions in 2025  
• We launched a new Baltic Sea Commitment in 
Finland for 2025–2030, focusing on water protection, 
supporting research, and enhancing science-based 
sustainable forestry practices. (on the right)
• The first SBTN pilot was finalized and work on 
standards continued. Participation in another SBTN 
pilot with a view to setting potential targets for forest 
management in Finland. 
• Work on the habitat restoration program started in 
UPM-owned forests in Finland. 
• UPM Uruguay received Ecosystem Service Certifica-
tion (FSC) for maintenance of a network of conser-
vation areas.
Actions for the environment
Collaboration for the  
Baltic Sea
 Challenge
A lack of clear, research-backed 
information in certain areas of for -
estry waters is still holding back the 
development of effective practices. 
 Action
Our new commitment with the 
Baltic Sea Action Group (BSAG) 
focuses on research on water man -
agement in forests and developing 
new practices in peatlands, for 
example. We provide research plots 
for studies on water quality, carbon 
balance, and groundwater regu-
lation. These plots are integrated 
into a network coordinated by the 
University of Helsinki and are open 
to all researchers.
New operating models and prac -
tical forestry guidelines are also 
being developed for water protec -
tion in forestry for both UPM’s own 
forests and privately owned forests. 
 Impact
Studies show that forestry sig-
nificantly impacts water quality 
and the carbon balance. Through 
research partnerships, we address 
key questions such as the regula-
tion of the groundwater and carbon 
cycles, and their impact on water 
bodies. This helps us to identify 
effective ways to reduce environ -
mental impacts on water.
Small changes in practices can 
enable the prevention of harm, 
improve the condition of water bod-
ies, and also restore them to their 
natural state. We are also commit -
ted to sharing these guidelines with 
forest owners. 
UPM Annual Report 2025
50 51
UPM Annual Report 2025  
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
Our strategyUPM in brief Our businesses Sustainability

Biodiversity is essential for maintaining 
healthy forest growth and ensuring forests 
adapt to the changing climate. We recog-
nize the vital role biodiversity plays in the 
health and sustainability of our forests and 
plantations.
Our main impact on biodiversity results from forest and land 
management, wood sourcing, migration barriers in stream waters, 
and the environmental load on production sites.
Actions in 2025  
• Implementation and follow-up of new 
and revised biodiversity indicators 
for UPM's forests and plantations in 
Finland, the U.S. and Uruguay. The 
first-ever deadwood survey in Minne-
sota. (on the right)
• Participation in the global project led 
by FSC™ to better understand the 
positive impact of forest certification 
on biodiversity
• Three obstacle removal projects on 
stream waters carried out 
• Studies related to eDNA continued in 
Finland and Uruguay. 
Enhancing biodiversity 
UPM’s operations on its production 
sites also impact the local environment 
and waterbodies. We therefore consider 
our commitments and priorities for en-
hancing biodiversity holistically in all our 
operations.
Our commitments
Biodiversity programs
We launched our first forest biodiversity program 
in 1998. Currently, we have two programs related 
to biodiversity: the Forest Action Program, with 
biodiversity as one focus area (since 2022), and 
the Stream Water Program (since 2016).
Net-positive impact on forest 
biodiversity (NPI)
We are committed to enhancing biodiversity in 
our forests in Finland and the U.S. and our land 
areas in Uruguay. Progress against our NPI tar-
get is monitored using specific key performance 
indicators.
Biodiversity indicators 
across UPM-owned forests
We aim for a net-positive impact on 
biodiversity in all UPM-owned for -
ests and measure progress through 
key indicators. These indicators 
were introduced in Finland in 2018, 
in Uruguay in 2022, and in the U.S. 
in 2025. Developing science-based 
methods to monitor biodiversity 
remains an ongoing priority.
In Minnesota, where UPM owns 
76,000 hectares of semi-natural 
mixed forest, we are enhancing 
natural characteristics through six 
biodiversity indicators grouped into 
three categories: forest manage -
ment, conservation, and projects 
and collaboration. These indicators 
guide actions such as promoting 
mixed-species, multi-aged silvicul-
ture to increase variety of tree spe -
cies and improve forest structure.
We also conserve the most valu-
able habitats, including old-growth 
forests, wetlands, and riparian 
areas, and conducted the first-ever 
deadwood inventory on our U.S. 
land with an external partner. The 
aim was to establish a baseline for 
deadwood volumes and under -
stand how they are distributed 
among different species, diameters, 
and states of decay.
Through collaboration with 
research organizations, we continue 
to develop our practices and inte -
grate best practices into everyday 
forest management.
  Biodiversity indicators 
on our website
In focus
Our priorities
Healthy and resilient forests 
We maintain healthy forests and plantations 
that are vital to our business, resilient to climate 
change, and support diverse habitats, species, 
and thriving ecosystems. Certification plays 
a crucial role in managing biodiversity in our 
forests and land areas and other wood sources.
Habitat restoration and monitoring
We restore habitats, develop sustainable 
forestry and hydropower generation practices, 
and improve the monitoring and measurement 
of biodiversity impacts in our forests and in hy-
dropower generation. We collaborate with var-
ious scientific and professional organizations 
such as Natural Resources Institute Finland. 
We are active in dismantling migration barriers 
in streams and testing new ways to restore fish 
stocks across Finland.
 
Mitigating negative impacts in 
production
We use best available techniques to reduce 
environmental load on production sites, improve 
water and soil quality, and enhance local biodi-
versity. 
Biodiversity as part of management 
remuneration
We have included biodiversity as a measure in 
UPM’s management remuneration. We have 
integrated the requirements of the T askforce on 
Nature-related Financial Disclosures (TNFD) 
into our reporting.
  Sustainability Statement, ESRS E4 
Biodiversity and ecosystems on page 188 
 Sustainable forestry on page 50 
Actions for the environment
UPM Annual Report 2025
52 53
UPM Annual Report 2025  52 UPM Annual Report 2025
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
Our strategyUPM in brief Our businesses Sustainability

Committed to climate action 
Our strategy is driving the transition to a low-carbon economy.
Forests, wood-based products, low-carbon 
energy, and reducing fossil CO2 emissions 
play a key role in mitigating climate change. 
As part of our Group-level sustainability tar-
gets for 2030, we have set ambitious targets 
for all these areas.
In focus
Products made with UPM’s wood-based bio-
chemicals have a significantly lower carbon 
footprint than those made with fossil-based 
alternatives. We have conducted a com-
prehensive Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) to 
evaluate the environmental impact of our 
biochemicals from raw material extraction to 
manufacturing. 
Renewable functional fillers provide light-
weight materials ideal for various rubber and 
plastic applications, such as tires and other 
automotive goods.
 UPM's renewable glycols behave like their 
oil-based counterparts and can be integrated 
into existing manufacturing and recycling 
processes. They are well-suited for use in 
bottles, packaging, textiles, deicing fluids, 
composites, and detergents. 
Replacing fossil-based raw materials with 
lignin helps industries reduce their environ-
mental impact. We offer lignin solutions for 
the production of phenolic resins, adhesives, 
plastics, and polyurethanes.
The Leuna biorefinery in Germany started 
the production of industrial sugars in De-
cember. Further commercial products are 
expected to enter the market in the first half 
of 2026.
UPM’s biochemicals help mitigate climate change
Toward net-zero emissions (2025)
We act through forests We act through emissions  
 reductions (Scope 1, 2, 3)
We act through products
-2.4
MtCO2 
Temporary  
carbon storage
Carbon stored in  
wood-based  
products'  
lifetime
+2.9
MtCO2
Scope 1 and 2 
emissions  
from own energy 
generation and 
purchased energy 
-5.4
MtCO2 
Carbon substitution
Avoided emissions by 
replacing fossil-  
based products 
+7.7 
MtCO2eq
Scope 3 emissions
from value chain 
(purchased goods 
and services,  
logistics, etc.)
Long-term 
carbon storage
Long-term 
storage in trees 
and soils
-1.9 
MtCO2eq
Carbon sink
Carbon absorbed  
in trees and soil 
-4.2
MtCO2 
Carbon  
substitution
Fossil energy 
substitution 
Our commitment
Limiting global temperature rise
We are committed to climate actions to 
mitigate the direct and indirect impact of our 
operations on the climate, to contribute to 
science-based emissions reduction targets in 
line with a 1.5 °C pathway as outlined in the Paris 
Agreement.
Our priorities
We act through forests 
Forests and forest biodiversity are critical for 
mitigating the effects of climate change. We en-
sure that our forests and plantation areas con-
tinue to act as carbon sinks and remain resilient 
and diverse in changing climate conditions, so 
they can thrive for future generations.
For our forests to remain carbon sinks, 
growth must exceed harvesting. The annual 
carbon sink of UPM-owned forests in Finland 
and the U.S., and the plantations on our own 
and leased land in Uruguay, has averaged -1.9 
million tonnes of CO2 equivalent over the past 
five years. Natural Resources Institute Finland 
calculates the carbon sink annually, and the 
calculation methods are updated with the 
latest scientific developments.
We act through emissions reduction
The most important way to mitigate climate 
change is to minimize the use of fossil fuels 
and raw materials. We favor renewable and 
Actions in 2025  
• UPM Communication Papers launched a climate action roadmap to significantly reduce 
product emissions by 2030 (page 43).
• Work with the Natural Resources Institute Finland to improve soil carbon models for Uru-
guay since 2022. Field measurements in eucalyptus plantations continued.
• UPM and its shipping partner Bore Ltd. joined the FuelEU Maritime compliance pooling 
service with three modern dual-fuel vessels, which now use bio-LNG. 
• A harmonized process for verifying carbon footprint data from suppliers implemented and 
tested. Category-specific roadmaps to achieve a 30% CO₂ reduction implemented in all 
business areas.
other carbon-neutral energy sources, and we 
produce CO 2-free hydro and nuclear power in 
Finland. We are also committed to reducing 
the emissions in our supply chain.
We are focused on achieving our 2030 
targets, including a 65% reduction in fossil CO2 
emissions (Scope 1 and 2) from 2015 levels and 
a 30% reduction in fossil CO2 emissions from 
sourced materials and logistics (Scope 3) from 
2018 levels. The Science Based T argets initiative 
(SBTi) has validated our fossil CO2 emissions 
reduction targets as consistent with the 1.5 °C 
pathway outlined in the Paris Agreement.
We have evaluated our position and resil-
ience in different climate scenarios for our 
businesses and functions from both physical 
and transitional perspectives using scientific 
expertise.
We act through products
Innovating new products that are not based on 
fossil raw materials is at the core of our strat-
We act through forests: Trees and soil absorb carbon and act as long-term carbon storage. This means they bind CO2 from the atmosphere, marking a negative in our carbon calculation. 
We act through emissions reductions: Emissions from our own operations and those of our supply chain increase the amount of CO2 in the atmosphere, marking a positive in our carbon calculation.
We act through products: Replacing fossil-based products and energy reduces emissions, marking a negative in the carbon calculation. Our products act as temporary carbon storage over their 
lifetime, binding CO2 from the atmosphere. In 2025, the annual carbon stock of our sold products increased from the previous year, marking a negative in the carbon calculation.  
We will align our net-zero approach with recognized international carbon accounting and assurance standards once they are finalized.
egy. We develop safe, sustainable products 
that serve as alternatives to fossil materials. 
Many of our products have been proven to 
be climate-positive.
A key action is investing in the world’s first 
industrial-scale biorefinery for wood-based 
biochemicals in Leuna, Germany. In addition, 
we introduced several innovative, co-created 
flexible packaging solutions with partners and 
brands, such as EvoPak, Walkers Chocolates, 
Orkla Suomi and Walki Westpak. These 
co-creation projects have resulted in packag-
ing solutions that offer a recyclable alterna-
tive to traditional plastic packaging.
  Sustainability Statement, ESRS E1 
Climate change on page 155
  Our 2030 sustainability targets 
and progress on page 47
Actions for the environment
UPM Annual Report 2025
54 55
UPM Annual Report 2025  
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
Our strategyUPM in brief Our businesses Sustainability

Toward CO2-free energy
Our energy portfolio consists primarily of sources that do not cause fossil CO2 emissions. As the green 
transition progresses, more fossil-free electricity and expertise in optimizing energy use will be required.
Electricity generation and consumption by country 2025
TWh
Electricity consumption
Electricity generation, CHP plants at the mills
Electricity generation, UPM Energy
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
OtherUKUSUruguayChinaGermanyFinland
UPM is a net seller of carbon neutral electricity in Finland and Uruguay.
0
2
4
6
8
T arget25242322212019181715
Fossil CO2 emissions
CO2 from purchased energy (Scope 2) 
CO2 from on-site energy generation (Scope 1)
mio t
UPM has been reducing its fossil CO₂ emissions rapidly towards the 2030 target. 
Scope 2
Scope 1
Fossil CO2 emissions by country 2025 
mio t
0
0.5
1.0
1.5
OtherUKUSUruguayChinaGermanyFinland
The largest fossil CO₂ emissions come from purchased energy in 
Germany and fuels in China.
Fuel consumption by country 2025
TWh
Black liquor
Peat
Natural gas
Recovered fuel
Bark and other biomass
Oil
Coal
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
20
OtherUKUSUruguayChinaGermanyFinland
UPM uses mainly renewable fuels in Finland and Uruguay. Natural gas 
is mainly used in Germany and coal in China.
Our role as an electricity producer and consumer
UPM is the second largest electricity producer in Finland and the largest 
electricity consumer. Our dual role has given us valuable expertise as price 
and supply volatility has become the new normal in the electricity markets.
We help maintain the balance of the electricity system by reducing con-
sumption at our paper mills or increasing production at our hydropower 
plants when there is a risk of electricity shortages.
UPM Energy is a major electricity supplier in Finland, with assets and 
shareholdings in Finnish hydropower, nuclear power, and, to a lesser 
extent, thermal power. Hydropower is the most effective and sustainable 
method of producing balancing power for the increased volatility of the 
electricity grid.
Nuclear power provides reliable baseload electricity generation based 
on Finland’s unique safe solution for the final disposal of spent fuel. 99% 
of UPM Energy’s electricity is CO2-free. The start of operations at the OL3 
nuclear power plant unit in Finland has increased UPM Energy’s CO2-free 
electricity generation by nearly 50%.
We continuously develop our energy portfolio by managing our CO2-free 
electricity generation assets in UPM Energy and converting our energy- 
consuming operations to lower-emission energy sources.
We generate significantly more electricity than we consume. This net 
sales position increased to over 7 TWh with OL3 and the UPM Paso de los 
T oros pulp mill in Uruguay.
We are working to meet our emissions 
reduction targets 
In 2025, we reduced our fossil CO2 emissions 
from energy generation (Scope 1) and pur-
chased energy (Scope 2) by 15% compared to 
the previous year , in line with our target of 
reducing emissions by 65% by 2030.
The use of coal and peat decreased by 5% 
compared to 2024. Our target is to stop using 
coal and peat for on-site energy generation 
by 2030. Coal is still the main fuel at the UPM 
Changshu paper mill in China, where alter-
natives have been unavailable in the past. 
Peat is used in Finland.
We are on track to meet our 2030 target 
for acidifying flue gases (NOX and SO2). We 
did not meet our target of improving energy 
efficiency by 1% annually.
We take action on our production sites 
Most of our energy consumption is related 
to the production processes at our pulp 
and paper mills. These processes require 
electricity and heat for mechanical pulping, 
pumping, and drying. We generate steam 
and electricity through combined heat and 
power (CHP) plants.
Biomass-based fuels account for 81% 
Actions for the environment
UPM Annual Report 2025
56 57
UPM Annual Report 2025  
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
Our strategyUPM in brief Our businesses Sustainability

Sources of UPM’s fossil CO2 emissions 
On-site energy 
generation 20%, 2.1 million t 
Purchased 
energy 
7%, 0.8 million t 
*Other indirect sources 
such as purchased materials, 
transportation or processing of 
sold products 73%, 7.7 million t
Other 
indirect 
sources* 
73%
Capacity to generate power through own 
power plants and shareholdings
Nominal MW
Hydropower 729
Nuclear power 1,081
Thermal power 133
UPM Energy in total 1,943
Mill site combined heat 
and power (CHP) 1,560
Mill site hydropower 7
Mill site power 
generation in total 1,567
Total UPM 3,510
(80%) of our fuel consumption on produc-
tion sites. At some mills, all or part of the 
required energy is produced by external or 
co-owned power plants.
We are seeking ways to improve energy 
efficiency across our operations through 
audits, innovations, and investments. These 
improvements usually lead to reductions in 
CO2 and other air emissions.
We work with suppliers to reduce CO 2 
emissions
We also evaluate emissions from oth-
er indirect sources (Scope 3), including 
purchased materials, transportation, and 
processing of sold products. Our target is to 
reduce fossil CO 2 emissions from materials 
and logistics by 30% by 2030, compared 
9.5 TWh
Electricity consumption
(9.6 TWh)
81%
Share of biomass-based fuels  
at production sites
(76%)
99%
Share of UPM Energy’s  
CO2 free electricity
(99%)
Water plays a crucial role in our business, from sustainable forestry to logistics 
and production. Flowing water is also a key source of renewable energy.
Pulp and paper production is our most 
water-intensive activity, so it is the focus of 
most of our water management efforts. On 
average, every liter of water withdrawn is 
used approximately 20 times in the produc-
tion process thanks to internal recirculation. 
Using less water in processes also means 
using less energy and sometimes chemicals.
We treat all wastewater from our pulp 
and paper mills using mechanical and bio-
logical processes. Purified water is usually 
returned to the same watershed from which 
it was taken.
The CDP has recognized UPM with an 
A– score for our actions to improve water 
stewardship.
Actions in 2025
• Collaboration expanded with the BSAG to 
include forestry water protection (page 51)
• Our Stream Water Program was expand-
ed to include UPM-owned land areas in 
the catchment area
• The San Francisco nursery in Uruguay 
improved its water recycling system in the 
hardening area
• UPM used WWF Water risk tool in assess-
ing and documenting the local water risks 
and related controls
• Pulp and paper mills continued their 
systematic water saving efforts. 
Our commitments
Minimizing water use and effluent load 
We continuously reduce the effluent load and 
volume generated by our operations.
Protecting aquatic ecosystems 
Our efforts to protect and restore aquatic ecosys-
tems improve the quality of watercourses and the 
natural habitats of the species that live in them.
Water stewardship
As a signatory to the UN Global Compact’s CEO 
Water Mandate, we adhere to the principles of 
environmentally sustainable, socially equitable, 
and economically beneficial water use.
Our priorities
Efficient water use
We use recycling techniques efficiently and 
manage processes using Best Available T ech-
niques (BAT).
Continuous improvement towards  
2030 targets
Each pulp and paper mill has a plan to achieve 
effluent volume and load reduction targets by 
2030, using advanced process controls and 
predictive models to optimize wastewater treat-
ment, for example.
Mitigating water risks
Our water-intensive operations are in areas with 
sufficient water availability.
Collaboration
We cooperate with local stakeholders and par-
ticipate in projects to further improve the quality 
of local waterways.
  Sustainability Statement, ESRS E3 Water 
and marine resources on page 183
Responsible water management
Actions for the environmentIn focusto 2018 levels. These emissions account 
for a significant share of our total Scope 3 
emissions.
To achieve this, we launched the -30 by 
30 Program. New and existing suppliers pro-
vide data on the carbon footprint of goods 
and services sold to UPM. This includes all 
relevant emissions from their own upstream 
supply chain and operations.
In 2025, we achieved a 22% reduction 
compared to 2018 for the target scope. Our 
total Scope 3 emissions were 7.7 million 
tonnes, a 6% decrease compared to the pre-
vious year . Currently, approximately 80% of 
our supply of pigments, pulp, and chemicals 
is covered by primary CO2 emissions data 
from suppliers, and 67% of our deliveries are 
calculated based on supplier data. 
Renewable diesel powers 
WISA® Plywood transport in 
Finland
 Challenge
T o meet the needs of the construc-
tion and transportation industries, 
WISA plywood must be transported 
by both road and rail. However, it is 
clear that we must reduce emissions 
related to transportation across all 
our operations.
 Action
UPM Plywood now uses renewable 
diesel for all domestic road transport 
of its WISA® plywood in Finland. This 
change will reduce UPM Plywood’s 
CO2 emissions from road transport 
in Finland by up to 90% compared 
to 2023 levels. The fuel used is HVO 
(Hydrotreated vegetable oil), a renew-
able diesel made from sustainable 
raw materials. 
At the beginning of 2024, rail 
transport from the UPM Pellos mill 
switched to renewable diesel, and now 
fossil diesel has been fully replaced 
in all of UPM Plywood’s domestic 
transport operations.
These emission reductions 
are based on the mass balance 
approach, where the transport 
partner agrees to purchase and use 
an equivalent amount of renewable 
diesel to that consumed by UPM’s 
transport operations. This devel-
opment is part of UPM’s long-term 
climate efforts to reduce Scope 3 
emissions by 30% by 2030, com-
pared to 2018 levels.
 Impact
Switching to low-emission domestic 
road transport supports UPM Ply -
wood’s emission reduction targets. 
These targets aim to minimize the 
climate impact of its products, oper -
ations, and supply chains.
UPM Annual Report 2025
58 59
UPM Annual Report 2025  
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
Our strategyUPM in brief Our businesses Sustainability

Advancing the circular bioeconomy
We use our raw materials 
efficiently. We already consider 
the circularity of our products 
in the design phase and strive 
to utilize all our process side 
streams.
Resource efficiency and the circular bioecon-
omy respond to resource scarcity, contribute 
to climate change mitigation, and provide 
sustainable solutions for customers and 
consumers.
  Sustainability Statement, ESRS E5 Resource 
use and circular economy on page 199 
Sustainability by design 
The concept consists of two phases. The first involves investigating the customer’s or consumer’s 
problem and defining our value proposition to solve it. Addressing challenges across a product’s 
six life cycle stages (design, materials, production, distribution, use, and circularity) requires sus-
tainability to be considered from the beginning. The second phase focuses on developing and 
delivering the solution. 
T o support decision-making and substantiate environmental claims, we use several tools 
within our sustainable product design framework. These include a tool we have developed that 
maps the impact of products on the UN SDGs, as well as Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) and 
carbon footprint analysis to evaluate the potential environmental impacts of new materials and 
products. We also conduct laboratory and pilot testing, including assessments of biodegrada-
bility and recyclability. These tools help ensure that sustainability is a measurable and verifiable 
attribute of our products.
Our commitments
Sustainable raw materials 
Our main raw material is renewable wood from 
sustainably managed forests. We also use 
secondary materials and residues in some of 
our products.
Product stewardship 
We ensure that our products are safe for their 
intended use, compliant, and sustainable 
throughout their life cycle. Our sustainable 
product design concept promotes circularity 
throughout the product life cycle. We aim to 
achieve ecolabeling for all applicable products, 
increase our portfolio of climate-positive prod-
ucts, and develop new products and services 
that contribute to the UN SDGs. 
Efficient use of resources
We use raw materials, water, and energy 
efficiently, while minimizing waste. We con-
sistently work to find utilization options for all 
our production side streams to ensure that no 
process waste is sent to landfills or incinerated 
without energy recovery by 2030. We also aim 
to use only recycled nutrients in our own effluent 
treatment plants by 2030.
Our priorities
Circular input
In addition to using renewable raw materials 
from sustainably managed forests, we use 
secondary raw materials such as recovered 
paper to produce graphic papers. We also use 
residues such as crude tall oil to produce renew-
able diesel and naphtha. We have developed 
innovative solutions and products from lignin, a 
side stream from pulp production.
Sustainable product design
We consider the environmental and social 
impacts of our products throughout their life 
cycle, from material selection to production, use, 
and recycling. Our sustainable product design 
concept steers our product development, en-
suring that every new product and service has 
a proven sustainability value proposition. Most 
of UPM's products are recyclable, depending on 
how they are processed.
Making use of residues, side streams and 
waste
We develop recycling and utilization solutions 
for our production side streams and share 
best practices, research results, and ideas 
across the company.
We use organic production residues to 
generate energy and as soil amendment 
materials or raw material for the brick industry 
and board manufacturing. Ash has multiple 
uses, including earth construction, use in the 
cement industry and as a fertilizer, serving as 
a raw material for paper fillers, and replacing 
caustic soda in internal processes. Lime is 
used as a liming agent in agriculture or for 
pH adjustment. We are working hard to find 
sustainable uses for green liquor dregs, one of 
our most challenging types of process waste 
to utilize. 
We are actively searching for and testing nu-
trients from recycled sources to replace all the 
nitrogen and phosphorus used at our effluent 
treatment plants with recycled alternatives by 
2030.
Collaborating for circularity
We work with industry associations and part -
ners to share knowledge and accelerate cir -
cularity across the value chain. We welcome 
partners to co-create circular innovations.
In focus
Accelerating nutrient 
recycling
 Challenge
Nitrogen and phosphorus are 
essential for plant growth and food 
production. However, industrial 
nitrogen production is energy-inten -
sive, and phosphorus is a depleting 
natural resource. 
 Action
UPM has set targets for 2030 to use 
only recycled nutrients at our efflu-
ent treatment plants and to utilize all 
our process side streams. In 2025, 
several mills tested new sources of 
recycled nutrients in their effluent 
treatment and expanded or started 
using them. For example, UPM 
Changshu started using recycled 
phosphorus, and UPM Nordland 
switched to recycled nitrogen.  
We expanded the use of our 
process side streams in agricul-
ture, and some of our Rauma and 
Kaukas effluent treatment sludges 
started being used as soil improvers 
after treatment by a collaboration 
partner. In Uruguay, the Paso de los 
T oros pulp mill commercialized a 
liming agent "Microcal", made from 
electrostatic precipitator dust from 
a lime kiln, and its use in agriculture 
began.
 Impact
We can reduce the need for nutri-
ents derived from virgin materials 
by enhancing nutrient recycling at 
our effluent treatment plants and 
through our process side streams. 
Liming regulates soil pH, improving 
nutrient solubility and availability 
for plants. Sludge increases soil’s 
carbon content and improves its nu-
trient and water retention, reducing 
the leaching of nutrients to water 
courses. 
Actions in 2025
• The UPM Product Stewardship Stand-
ard was implemented in all relevant 
businesses
• Several innovative co-created 
solutions for recyclable, paper-based 
packaging were introduced with part-
ners and brands 
• Launch of UPM Circular Renewable 
Black™, the first bio-based, NIR-de-
tectable pigment that supports plastic 
recycling processes
• Further mills tested new sources of 
recycled nutrients and expanded or 
started using recycled nutrients 
• Further work conducted at pulp mills 
in Finland and Uruguay to identify uti-
lization options for green liquor dregs.
Actions for the environment
UPM Annual Report 2025
60 61
UPM Annual Report 2025  
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
Our strategyUPM in brief Our businesses Sustainability

Active dialogue with stakeholders
Understanding the views and expectations of stakeholders is 
crucial to our success and the acceptance of our operations.
accurate information in accordance with 
market regulations.
As many of our stakeholders primarily 
view UPM as an economic operator , discus-
sions focus on financial success, stability, 
good governance, the future outlook, and 
growth. Many discussions also address for-
ests and forest use.
Stakeholder mapping, active dialogue, 
and systematically collecting feedback 
play an important role in our stakeholder 
relations work. We analyze this feedback 
to understand stakeholders’ expectations, 
taking them into account in development and 
decision-making. In 2025, we received 460 
inquiries or concerns from the general public.
Sustainability initiatives
We continue to participate in UN Global 
Compact and have joined the UN Global 
Compact Forward Faster initiative, which 
aims to accelerate progress toward achieving 
the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. 
UPM’s Faster Forward commitment focuses 
on gender equality, living wages, and the 
net-zero emissions target.
We voluntarily collaborate with vari-
ous stakeholders in sustainability issues, 
addressing topics such as ecolabels, fish 
migration, living wages, children's rights, 
and nature conservation. Through the Forest 
Action Program, we collaborate with the 
Baltic Sea Action Group, the Finnish Osprey 
Foundation, and Vida Silvestre in Uruguay.
We are active international stakeholder 
members of the PEFC (Program for the En-
dorsement of Forest Certification, PEFC/02-44-
41) and the FSC™ (Forest Stewardship Council, 
FSC-N003385). We engage in the development 
of forest certification systems to promote 
sustainable forest management globally.
Sustainability issues are also raised in 
customer inquiries, with product safety, 
sustainable forest management, and climate 
change being key themes.
Green transition and bioeconomy are 
high on the policy agenda
Through public affairs work, we promote the 
prerequisites for our operations, especially in 
our main operating countries: Finland, Uru-
guay, Germany, and China. Active influencing 
at the EU level is also important.
Our public affairs activities are based on 
our strategy. Topic-specific steering groups 
guide our public affairs activities, and the 
Group Executive Team regularly reviews 
these topics.
We cooperate with several trade associa-
tions, the most significant being the Finnish 
Forest Industries Federation (FFIF) and the 
Confederation of European Paper Industries 
(Cepi).
As we enter new industries, we need to 
find new ways and forums for cooperation. 
For example, UPM is a member of the Euro-
pean Chemical Industry Council (Cefic).
We are represented in the decision-mak-
ing bodies of these trade associations so we 
can influence and monitor their positions 
and ensure they align with our strategy. The 
basic requirement for membership in any 
trade association is alignment with UPM’s 
strategic positions.
As an active participant in the energy 
market, both as an energy-intensive con-
sumer and producer , UPM regularly reminds 
decision-makers of the importance of func-
tioning energy markets.
Climate change and our commitment to 
the UN’s 1.5-degree agenda continue to be of 
great interest to our stakeholders. We engage 
in dialogue with environmental organizations, 
certification bodies, authorities, and deci-
sion-makers. The impact of forests on climate 
is linked to policies on land use, land use 
change, and forestry (LULUCF). We emphasize 
Actions in 2025  
• Based on customer satisfaction 
survey results, the overall satisfaction  
with UPM as a supplier is 87% (85%)
• Joined Cefic to strengthen the role of 
renewable chemistry in Europe
• A new standard for local community 
engagement and the Share and Care 
Program 
• The focus areas of the UPM Share and 
Care Program reviewed and updated
• 70+ communities positively impacted 
by the UPM Foundation projects in 
Uruguay
• Support for globally recognized 
humanitarian organizations, such as 
UNICEF Finland
• The renovated UNESCO World Herit-
age Site Verla opened to the public
Creating value for people and society
Community relationships 
are a strategic asset
A strong social license to operate 
is essential for long-term business 
success. Our new community 
engagement standard outlines how 
we interact with local communities, 
strengthening stakeholder trust, and 
focus on long-term impacts.
This single UPM standard applies 
to pre-defined high-impact sites and 
forest operations with significant 
potential social or environmental 
impacts. The standard also governs 
local initiatives, charitable dona-
tions, and employee volunteering 
under the Share and Care Program.
The Standard requires these 
high-impact sites and forest opera-
tions to conduct stakeholder map -
ping, develop engagement plans, 
and identify and prioritize social im -
pacts while paying particular atten -
tion to potential vulnerable groups. It 
emphasizes dialogue, transparency, 
and grievance mechanisms that 
are widely accessible.  Engagement 
plans are based on operations 
and can include various forms of 
engagement, such as mill visits, fo -
rums, and educational events. Sites 
should monitor the effectiveness 
of engagement through KPIs. and 
transparently report results. 
We support local initiatives, 
provide charitable donations, and 
promote employee volunteering to 
create long-term positive societal 
impact and support the vitality of 
our local communities. Communi-
cations and training regarding the 
implementation of the new standard 
will begin in 2026.
CASE STUDYIn focus
The impact of our operations extends from 
the local level to society at large. We aim to 
provide a fact-based balanced view of the 
economic, environmental, and social aspects 
of our operations. Through collaboration, we 
maintain transparent, responsive, and pro-
active relationships with our stakeholders, 
fostering mutual understanding.
A clear picture of our future
We provide stakeholders with a clear picture 
of our future direction and how we create 
long-term value. We disclose relevant and 
Our strategy forms the foundation of our 
stakeholder dialogue. Our key focus areas 
and activities vary according to local needs 
and stakeholder preferences. We define key 
stakeholders on the basis of materiality. 
UPM's operations have a significant impact 
on stakeholders, and/or vice versa.
• Investors
• Customers
• Current and future employees
• Suppliers
• Communities
• Media
• Governments and regulators
• NGOs
• Researchers.
Our most important stakeholders
UPM Annual Report 2025
62 63
UPM Annual Report 2025  
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
Our strategyUPM in brief Our businesses Sustainability

The UPM Share and Care Program focuses on making a positive impact 
on communities through various initiatives. Through charitable donations, 
local support, and employee volunteering, the program demonstrates our 
commitment to responsibility and local community involvement. 
We support projects that focus on youth, education, and enhancing sci-
ence-based actions to promote biodiversity and mitigate climate change. 
UPM does not support political parties or individual candidates. 
Support for local initiatives amounted to approximately €0.6 million in 
2025. This figure includes support for the Uruguayan UPM Foundation, 
which received a contribution of $400,000. The foundation promotes and 
supports education, entrepreneurship, employment, healthy living, and 
entertainment in rural Uruguayan communities.
In 2025, we donated a total of €1.1 million to charities and other nonprofit 
organizations. Beneficiaries included the University of Helsinki, UNICEF 
Finland, Children and Youth Foundation, Stiftung Lesen and Redoblando 
Esfuerzos Asociación Civil. Donations were allocated according to our 
focus areas. Approximately 44% went to youth-related initiatives, 30% to 
education initiatives, and 26% to climate and biodiversity projects. These 
projects were primarily aimed at our main operating countries, Finland, 
Germany, Uruguay, China, Poland, and the U.S.
Employee volunteering underlines local commitment and impact. UPM’s 
employees can volunteer for up to eight hours a year during working hours. 
In 2025, approximately 300 UPMers participated in voluntary initiatives 
in many of our operating countries, including Finland, Poland, Germany, 
China, Malaysia, and the U.S. Activities included stream restoration, tree 
planting, and helping children and young people. Several UPM sites partici-
pated in environmental cleanup activities.
UPM's materiality analysis 2025
Every year, we conduct a materiality analysis to identify topics on which 
UPM has a significant impact or topics that have a significant impact 
on the company. The analysis is based on internal assessments as well 
as stakeholder interests and concerns. The annual double materiality 
assessment (DMA) considers the interests, views, and rights of various 
stakeholders, including UPM’s workforce, value chain workers, and affected 
communities.
We embed the insights gained from stakeholder engagement in our 
business decisions and strategy in multiple ways. These methods include 
regular interviews and surveys, open dialogue, and engagement events.
Low High
Low HighFinancial materiality
Impact materiality
Social 
• Diversity and inclusion
• Communities
High impact and 
medium financial  
materiality
Economic and 
governance 
• Responsible 
sourcing
Environment 
• Circular bioeconomy
• Product stewardship
• Sustainable water  
usage
Economic and governance
• Renewable and circular products and 
CO2-free energy
• Business resiliency
• Business ethics and values
Social 
• Decent work and 
fair rewarding
• Health and  
safety
Environment 
• Biodiversity
• Climate change
• Sustainable forestry
High impact and 
high financial 
materiality
In Uruguay, the UPM Foundation promotes 
education and entrepreneurship by collabo-
rating with local organizations.
We take measures to identify and mitigate 
our environmental and social impacts on 
surrounding communities. These measures 
include impact assessments, collaboration 
forums, cooperation with local schools and 
education networks, and dialogue with local 
forest owners, neighbors of harvesting sites, 
and others impacted by forest management.
The UPM Share and Care Program
Our EMAS statement discloses the societal 
and environmental impacts of our pulp and 
paper mills, as well as our collaboration with 
local stakeholders. The reports are published 
annually on our website upm.com/sustain-
ability.
  Sustainability Statement, ESRS 2 
General information on page 137
  Sustainability Statement, ESRS S3 
Affected communities on page 229
How we engage with our stakeholders
 Active dialogue and feedback 
We organize regular events and discussions with stakeholders on key 
topics such as financial success, governance, and environmental 
issues. We systematically collect and analyze feedback to understand 
and address stakeholder expectations.
 Sustainability initiatives
We participate in UN Global Compact initiatives and other sustainabili-
ty programs. We also collaborate with various environmental organiza-
tions and certification bodies. We engage with local and international 
stakeholders in sustainability issues.
 Public affairs and policy influence
We work with various trade associations, industry initiatives, and 
decision-making bodies. We actively participate in policy discussions 
related to products, climate change, sustainable forest management, 
and energy markets in key countries and at the EU level.
 Community engagement
We engage with local communities through mill visits, forums, and 
educational events. We regularly evaluate and improve our community 
engagement practices. 
 Supporting local communities and volunteering
We coordinate local support, donations, and employee volunteering 
through the UPM Share and Care Program. The program focuses 
on causes and projects that support innovation and sustainability or 
promote local vitality and well-being.
that sustainable forest management and re-
placing fossils with wood-based products are 
effective ways to mitigate climate change.
We actively promote the consistent and 
cost-competitive implementation of forest 
and climate-related policies. UPM calls for 
predictable regulations that enable invest-
ment in the circular bioeconomy. EU policies 
must therefore ensure the sustainable use of 
forests and the availability of wood as a key 
resource for green growth.
Community engagement 
Building and maintaining good relations 
with local communities near UPM’s op-
erations and supporting their vitality are 
essential for acceptance of our operations, 
as well as for understanding the challenges, 
key risks, and opportunities in our operating 
environment. 
We aim to contribute to the economic, 
environmental, and social development of 
surrounding communities and minimize the 
negative impacts of our operations. 
Our mills in Europe, the U.S., and Uru-
guay have the potential to create significant 
local societal impacts through employment 
and tax generation.
We promote positive impacts in local 
communities by developing infrastruc-
ture, for example. Other activities include 
apprenticeship programs in Finland and 
Germany, and cooperation with educational 
institutions to promote science and research. 
UPM Annual Report 2025
64 65
UPM Annual Report 2025  
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
Our strategyUPM in brief Our businesses Sustainability

People and culture
Our Aiming Higher culture encourages all UPMers to grow as individuals and as a company. 
Our values – Trust and be trusted, Achieve together, and Renew with courage – guide us.
Our values are the foundation of who we 
are. We are accountable, collaborative, 
performance-driven and forward-looking. 
We provide a safe and healthy work envi-
ronment, interesting and meaningful work, 
good leadership, and ample opportunities 
for growth.
We are committed to being a respon-
sible and attractive employer now and in 
the future. In recruiting new employees, 
especially younger professionals, being the 
employer of choice has become critical. 
As a result of our systematic efforts to 
develop our work environment, external 
Actions in 2025  
• New programs on business acumen 
and impactful communication in UPM’s 
global leadership development portfolio 
• AI upskilling and "Let's talk AI" team 
discussions
• Implemented microlearning creation 
tools
• The company-wide safety project was 
completed
• Continued to develop process safety-     
related competencies
• Continued to implement the UPM 
Health and Well-being concept.
• Diversity and inclusion discussions 
continued
• Implemented the Safe Contacts 
concept
Creating value for people and society
In focus
MyShare - UPM's employee share savings plan
We believe that our success is built on the 
dedication and commitment of our people. 
That’s why we introduced MyShare, a 3-year 
employee share savings plan that offers em-
ployees the opportunity to save a part of their 
salary and invest it in UPM shares. Participa-
tion is voluntary.
MyShare aims to engage employees, in-
crease their interest in company performance 
and long-term value creation, and align 
employee and shareholder interests. The first 
plan, which runs from 2025 to 2028, closed 
for enrollment in June. Approximately 20% of 
employees in 29 countries enrolled. 
MyShare consists of a 12-month savings 
period followed by a 24-month holding period. 
During enrollment, employees confirmed the 
amount of salary to be saved. During the sav-
ings period, savings are deducted from salary 
and invested in UPM shares quarterly. 
As an incentive for employees to invest, 
UPM gives participating employees a match-
ing reward after the holding period ends. 
Additionally, each employee who participated 
in the first plan and saved throughout the 
savings period will receive 10 free gross shares 
after the 12-month savings period.
The initial idea for the share savings plan 
came from UPM employees who expressed 
interest in saving shares in their employer.
and create new ones. These communities 
allow us to build and retain corporate 
knowledge on topics such as sustainability, 
AI and project management.
We have run several successful graduate 
programs in recent years. Our apprentice-
ship programs ensure that future employ-
ees have the necessary expertise. These 
programs typically focus on production or 
maintenance work and are carried out with 
vocational training partners.
Our digital learning content and on-
line programs encourage individuals to 
strengthen their self-leadership and help 
leaders to enable their teams to perform 
and grow. In addition to new programs 
that develop AI skills and business acumen, 
we offer digital learning in areas such as 
parties have recognized our position among 
students and professionals in Finland and 
China. 
We develop employee experience
In an increasingly complex business envi-
ronment, it is important to enhance the skills 
and well-being of employees for both busi-
ness success and sustained employability.
All employees are encouraged to create 
and maintain an individual development 
plan. Our development planning process 
and tools enable employees to create these 
plans at least once a year and as required. 
Managers ensure that the plans align with 
business needs. Our goal is to support em-
ployees in maintaining their passion and ex-
pertise for current and future roles through 
continuous development.
We invest in the growth of our people 
and expect them to be eager to learn and 
develop. Our approach to learning empha-
sizes on-the-job learning and growth, as 
well as sharing knowledge with and learn-
ing from each other .
One way to learn on the job is to par-
ticipate in gigs. These short-term, val-
ue-adding projects allow employees to use 
10–20% of their working time. Gigs support 
employee development and enable the dy-
namic resourcing of smaller , business-rele-
vant projects.
We encourage professional development
Expert communities facilitate sharing and 
learning across the company. We encourage 
UPMers to join existing expert communities 
UPM Annual Report 2025
66 67
UPM Annual Report 2025  
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
Our strategyUPM in brief Our businesses Sustainability

Our employees by region
1,371
China
322
Other Asia
105
Rest of  
the world
5,866
Finland
3,133
Germany
2,585
Other Europe
858
North America
887
Uruguay
15,127
To ta l 
UPM personnel in figures 2025 2024 2023
Employees 15,127 15,827 16,573
Turnover, % 13.1 13.6 11.1
Turnover, % (voluntary) 4.6 4.8 5.1
Average age 44.7 44.4 44.3
In focus
Other operations 3%
UPM Biorefining 3% 
UPM Plywood 10% 
UPM Fibres 18%
UPM Specialty 
Papers 12% 
UPM Adhesive 
Materials 22%
UPM Energy 1%
UPM’s personnel by business area 2025
UPM 
Communi-
cation Papers
31%
Part time 
3%
Fixed term 
8%
Full time
97%
Permanent 
92%We regularly measure our progress
Since 2007, the annual Employee Engagement Survey (EES) has invited all employees to eval-
uate various aspects of their work. The high participation rate of 78% (76%) demonstrates UPM 
employees’ interest in improving their workplace. The overall engagement score is 67 (70).
In 2025, 81% (78%) of employees had documented development plans. In the EES, the score 
for the question about good opportunities to learn and grow at UPM was 65 (65).
The annual incentives paid in 2025 for the 2024 Short-T erm Incentive (STI) scheme amounted 
to €48.8 million. The estimated amount of annual incentives for the 2025 scheme is €35.9 
million.
Around 300 people participated in the apprenticeship programs in 2025.
Extending safety thinking 
into digital interactions
 Challenge
In today’s world, cyber threats and in-
formation leaks are real and present 
dangers. These threats pose some of 
the most severe risks to businesses. 
In the worst case, they can funda-
mentally damage a company and its 
operations. We want our employees 
to stay safe, on and off work.
 Action
We take digital safety seriously, and 
cybersecurity is integrated into our 
daily operations. The digital security 
rules adopted in 2025 include guide-
lines on topics such as the protection 
of personal data and the use of 
artificial intelligence. Digital safety is 
also included in the updated 2025 
UPM Code of Conduct. All the rules, 
guidelines, and best practices are 
available on the UPM intranet and in 
local management systems.
UPM employees play a critical role 
in protecting information and sys-
tems, because even the best techni-
cal measures might not be sufficient. 
Everyone can contribute to creating 
a digitally safe work environment. We 
train and encourage our personnel 
to understand potential risks, stay 
alert, and become cyber-smart. This 
protects our customers, operations, 
and employees. 
 Impact
Digital services, business informa-
tion, including personal data, and 
production automation systems are 
major assets that UPM has both 
an interest in and a responsibility to 
protect. Protecting these assets is es-
sential for UPM to conduct business 
successfully and without interrup-
tion, as well as to comply with legal 
requirements.  
commerce, sourcing, finance, compliance, 
safety, leadership, communication and 
design thinking.
We set forward-looking goals
We aim to strengthen employees’ sense of 
belonging and meaningful work. This drives 
productivity, engagement and well-being.
We set strategy-related goals for all 
employees worldwide. Regular one-to-one 
discussions between managers and their 
team members provide opportunities to ask 
for , give and receive feedback on perfor-
mance and individual development.
We reward and recognize high 
performance
Our rewards aim to attract, retain, and mo-
tivate employees. Our reward concepts are 
designed to provide all our employees with 
fair , equitable and competitive rewards. 
These concepts are based on business needs 
and our values, and they are differentiated 
by performance and impact.
We use a total rewards approach, 
combining monetary and non-monetary 
elements. Monetary elements consist of 
base salary, benefits and incentives, which 
are determined by UPM’s global rules, local 
legislation, general agreements, local mar-
ket practices, position level and individual 
performance. Gender , age, ethnic origin 
and nationality play no role in determining 
monetary rewards.
All employees belong to a unified 
annual Short-Term Incentive (STI) scheme, 
designed to encourage high performance, 
increase motivation and engagement, 
and recognize and reward employees for 
achieving targets. The scheme covers Group 
and business-level targets, as well as per-
sonal and team targets, to differentiate and 
reward high performance.
We recognize significant individual or 
team success with a separate Achievement 
We strengthen our leadership culture
We aim to strengthen a leadership culture 
based on our values and the Aiming Higher 
mindset, which enables everyone to grow, per-
form and achieve business results. We invest 
in leadership development to ensure that lead-
ers throughout UPM have the capabilities to 
lead themselves, their teams and the business.
Our leadership development programs 
are designed to achieve these long-term 
goals. Key themes include building 
high-performing teams, enabling leaders to 
perform in any situation and strengthening 
human-centric leadership.
Award. It is designed to support UPM’s 
high-performance culture and recognize 
individuals and teams for their outstanding 
contributions, significant achievements and 
exceptional performance.
We also have two main long-term 
incentive plans: the Performance Share 
Plan (PSP) for senior executives; and the 
Deferred Bonus Plan (DBP) for other key 
employees.
  Sustainability Statement, ESRS S1 
Own workforce on page 208 
  A diverse and inclusive working 
culture on page 70 
 Safety and well-being on page 72
UPM Annual Report 2025
68 69
UPM Annual Report 2025  
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
Our strategyUPM in brief Our businesses Sustainability

We develop an organizational culture and local conditions 
that ensure a diverse and inclusive working environment.
Promoting diversity and inclusion in the 
workplace is the right thing to do and a pre-
requisite for business success and a healthy 
working environment. Different perspec-
tives improve decision-making and business 
performance. At UPM, all employees are 
treated as individuals, regardless of gender , 
age, disability, sexual orientation, ethnic or-
igin or nationality. We welcome people with 
different competencies and backgrounds to 
join our global team.
We respect our employees’ privacy and 
promote equal opportunity and objectivity 
in employment and career development. 
Diversity and inclusion are part of our 
Aiming Higher mindset and our cultural 
development.
Three action areas
Our Diversity and Inclusion initiatives are 
divided into three areas: 
1. Commitment to diversity and inclusion
2. Creating and leading an inclusive culture
3. Regularly reviewing our data and 
 processes
Our commitment to diversity and 
inclusion
We are committed to developing a diverse 
and inclusive workplace. In 2016, we signed 
the EU Diversity Charter . Our commitment 
and expectations regarding diversity and in-
clusion, as well as transparent recruitment, 
are outlined in the UPM Code of Conduct 
and other company policies. 
In recent years, we have worked system-
atically to increase diversity and inclusion 
at UPM. Our diversity and inclusion-related 
social responsibility targets focus on our 
employees’ sense of belonging and the rep-
resentation of women in professional and 
managerial roles. We have set an ambitious 
target of reaching 40% female representa-
tion by 2030.
With this increased diversity, we aim 
to develop our leadership capabilities. 
Our situation varies by organization. Each 
business and function therefore requires 
its own targets and plans to increase female 
representation. According to our analysis, 
men and women have equal opportunities 
to advance at UPM.
Since 2021, we have conducted an 
annual gender pay equity review to address 
the gender pay gap unxplained by factors 
typically determining salaries and their 
development. We will continue to monitor 
this annually and make adjustments where 
necessary. 
In 2023, we joined the UN Forward Faster 
Initiative on gender equality. 
Creating and leading an inclusive culture
To further develop inclusive leadership and 
a culture of inclusion, we continued our 
dialogue with management teams in busi-
nesses and functions in 2025. Since 2019, 
about 3,500 people have participated in the 
dialogue. In recent years, we have expanded 
our understanding of how to lead diverse 
teams and developed awareness of LGBTIQ+ 
diversity and inclusion in the workplace. 
UPM is a member of Workplace Pride and 
offers training in this topic for all UPMers. 
More than 1,000 people have completed the 
training.
A diverse and inclusive 
working culture
In 2024, we participated in Workplace 
Pride's annual assessment of the LGBTIQ+ 
practices in companies. Network members 
and the core team plan activities to support 
the community and raise awareness at UPM. 
In 2025, the BeU Employee Resource Group 
for LGBTIQ+ issues continued to be active 
and contributed to the implementation of 
the Safe Contacts concept.
We integrate inclusive behavior into 
our leadership development programs and 
UPM Code of Conduct training. Since 2022, 
we have measured inclusive leadership, i.e., 
how UPM’s leaders value different perspec-
tives. The results of the 2025 Employee En-
gagement Survey (EES) remain unchanged 
from 2024. Inclusive leadership will contin-
ue to be a development area for us.
We have set a target for a sense of 
belonging, benchmarking ourselves against 
the top 10% of companies. Our EES also 
measures authenticity, or feeling comforta-
ble being oneself, and fair treatment. These 
are important strengths that we monitor on 
an ongoing basis.
Regular monitoring
We regularly review our diversity status 
and data. Our management teams conduct 
self-assessments on diversity and inclusion. 
Managers and HR have dashboards with 
diversity data. 
We also consistently follow up processes 
such as rewarding and recruitment, and 
we also report progress regularly to several 
external indices.
countries
42
in
85
Nationalities
Women 
24%
Men 
76%
Shop-floor 
55%
Salaried 
45%
Employee Engagement Survey results 
Authenticity score  
80
+1
Fair Treatment score  
75
+1
Women managers 
26%
+1pp
Age-diverse teams 
57%
+2pp
Multinational teams 
29%
+2pp
Creating value for people and society
UPM Annual Report 2025
70 71
UPM Annual Report 2025  
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
Our strategyUPM in brief Our businesses Sustainability

Our safety work is based on long-term planning, effective communication, 
and leadership. Safety is integrated into all our daily operations,  
Investing in employee well-being is a stra-
tegic business decision that can drive long-
term success. Focusing on well-being and 
safety fosters a positive work environment 
and improves team collaboration. This can 
lead to more innovative solutions and better 
overall performance.
Safety and well-being
Employee well-being 
We focus on our employees' overall health 
and well-being. Our approach is holistic and 
divided into four themes: body, mind, heart, 
and soul. Our commitment to a safe work 
environment is based on our safety vision and 
rules, including safety principles. We aim to 
have an accident-free workplace.
Building the safety culture
We develop a caring safety culture through 
employee participation and positive open 
communication. Safety is a value that guides 
us in making the right decisions and choic -
es. Our behavioral safety leadership training 
helps our managers integrate safety into daily 
operations and ways of working. This includes 
activities such as regular safety observations, 
improvement suggestions, participation in risk 
assessments and incident investigations, and 
safety training.
Strong focus on process safety
Our UPM-wide process safety standard sets 
minimum requirements for process safety 
in operations, projects, and functions. We 
systematically develop process-safety-relat-
ed competences. Global e-learning training 
UPM workforce including contractors 2025 2024 2023
T otal injuries per one million hours worked, TRIF 5.0 5.1 5.2
Lost-time accidents per one million hours worked, L TAF 3.2 3.2 3.4
Serious accidents 2 3 5
Fatalities 0 0 0
Embracing well-being at UPM 
Our approach is built around four themes:
Body: Empowering individuals to lead active 
lives within their own contexts. High energy levels 
and physical condition enhance quality of life 
and performance.
Mind: A balanced mind fosters high work 
engagement, inspiration, and learning. A friendly 
atmosphere nurtures creativity and the flow of 
ideas.
Heart: A sense of belonging and feeling appre-
ciated boosts work motivation. T eam commit-
ment and loyalty foster deeper engagement.
Soul: Having a meaningful purpose inspires 
and makes one feel proud of working at UPM. 
Engaged employees naturally become UPM 
advocates.
Facts and figures
We continued to implement the UPM Health and 
Well-being concept in 2025. Despite our continu-
ous efforts to prevent accidents, two serious acci-
dents occurred in 2025: one involving a contractor; 
and one happened to an UPM employee.
All accidents were thoroughly investigated in 
close cooperation with the authorities and contrac-
tors. We initiated corrective and preventive actions 
and shared key learning lessons across all busi-
nesses to prevent similar accidents in the future.
In 2025, we reported 42,000 safety-related near 
misses and safety observations, and we conducted 
35,000 safety walks and discussions.
The 2025 health and well-being pulse survey was 
conducted in May. In general, scores were the same 
or slightly better than in the 2024 survey.
The biofuels refinery in Lappeenranta, Finland, 
received the 2025 UPM Safety Award for Best 
Improver. Over the past 10 years, the unit has 
systematically enhanced safety with a strong 
emphasis on safety leadership, continuous im -
provement, and safety training. The Scarborough 
factory of UPM Adhesive Materials received the 
Safety Award for the Best Steady Performer for its 
excellent safety culture.
on process safety has increased awareness 
throughout the organization. Process safety 
risk assessments are integrated into invest-
ment project preparation.
Management systems and safety audits
All our production units have a Health and 
Safety (H&S) management system in place, 
and 93% of them have ISO 45001 certification. 
This certification covers 74% of our employees. 
Annual safety audits are an integral part of the 
H&S management system, focusing on risk 
management and operating permits.
Continuous improvement and 
recognition
Safety is embedded in all our daily operations, 
practices, and new and ongoing projects. 
Thorough investigation of incidents and effec -
tive risk management play an important role 
in making UPM's operations safer. We share 
safety observations and best practices across 
our businesses to improve safety.
We recognize exemplary safety perfor-
mance with company-wide awards to highlight 
units that have made significant efforts to 
improve their employees' health, safety, and 
well-being.
Our safety commitments and priorities
Creating value for people and society
UPM Annual Report 2025
72 73
UPM Annual Report 2025  
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
Our strategyUPM in brief Our businesses Sustainability

Collaborating  
on human rights
Respect for human rights forms the basis of our social 
responsibility agenda and 2030 targets.
In a time of ongoing instability, with socio-
economic pressures and an urgent need to 
address the climate change and biodiver-
sity loss, collaboration is essential to drive 
progress. We are committed to respecting 
human rights throughout our operations, 
including our employees, suppliers, contrac-
tors, and surrounding communities.
Our commitments
Alignment with international principles
Our approach is based on the UN Guiding 
Principles on Business and Human Rights (UN-
GPs) and guided by our Code of Conduct and 
related policies, rules, and guidelines. We expect 
a similar commitment from our suppliers, third 
parties, and joint venture partners, as set out in 
our Supplier and Third-Party Code.
Safe work environment 
We ensure the health, safety, and security of 
our employees, those working on our sites and 
premises, visitors, and others impacted by our 
operations.
Decent work
We promote decent work in our value chains and 
Our priorities
Focus on salient issues
We use our corporate salient human rights 
assessment, along with input from relevant 
stakeholders, to identify our material human 
rights issues. UPM’s corporate salient human 
rights issues are health and safety, land rights 
and community engagement, terms and condi-
tions of work, forced labor, and children’s rights. 
We continue to prioritize our efforts accordingly, 
recognizing that our impact on people evolves 
as our business changes, and our due diligence 
approach develops.
Human rights due diligence is a 
continuous process 
Human rights risks are regularly assessed at the 
business area, function, and corporate levels. 
This process includes identifying actual and 
potential risks and impacts, evaluating their 
severity and likelihood, and prioritizing the most 
significant issues for action. 
Promoting social responsibility in our 
supply chain
Contractors carry out a significant proportion of 
our operations, particularly in maintenance at 
our production units, construction, and forestry. 
We ensure responsible subcontracting through 
clear requirements. Our approach includes 
setting limitations on subcontracting, requiring 
commitment to social responsibility and labor 
rights, engaging with contractor workers, and 
applying approval and due diligence processes. 
play our part in building a more equitable society. 
We actively promote fair pay. Our commitment 
to gender pay equity and living wages aligns with 
the UN Sustainable Development Goals. 
Identifying and prioritizing salient human 
rights issues
We prioritize the most serious human rights risks 
and impacts and take action to address them.
Zero tolerance for human rights 
violations
We prohibit all forms of forced labor, modern 
slavery, and child labor. Discrimination is not tol-
erated. We do not accept any form of inhumane 
treatment within our operations or across our 
value chain.
Creating value for people and society
Actions in 2025  
• About 600 UPM employees took the training in the renewed UPM Supplier and 
Third-Party Code.  
• A new UPM standard for local community engagement and the Share and Care Pro -
gram, which provides guidelines for local dialogue, issue management, and community 
development contributions. 
• Limitations on the use of subcontractors introduced.
• Over 100 subcontractor worker interviews held in connection to maintenance shutdowns 
in Finland. 
• Organized internal training to help personnel identify and address social responsibility 
risks in subcontracting chains. 
We also equip our personnel to identify and ad-
dress social responsibility risks in subcontracting 
chains through internal training.
Training and awareness
All UPM employees are required to complete 
mandatory Code of Conduct training, which 
covers essential topics such as human rights 
and ethical business practices. We provide spe-
cialized training on supplier requirements such 
as the UPM Supplier and Third-Party Code, and 
anti-corruption to ensure responsible sourcing. 
Contractors working on UPM sites receive com-
prehensive safety induction and training tailored 
to the specific risks of their work environment. 
Collaboration and stakeholder 
engagement 
Promoting human rights requires both internal 
capacity building and active collaboration 
across our value chain. We maintain continu-
ous dialogue with our stakeholders, including 
suppliers, contractors, and forest owners, to 
ensure shared understanding and progress. 
Internally, we organize human rights workshops 
to build awareness and support effective local 
implementation. Externally, we participate in 
collaborative forums such as T ogether for Sus-
tainability (TfS) and the UN Global Compact 
(UNGC) Labour and Decent Work Program. 
Through these forums, we share insights and 
best practices, and contribute to development 
and capacity building across industries. 
Strengthening contractor 
collaboration 
Each year, more than 50,000 con-
tractor employees work on produc-
tion sites and in forestry operations. 
Many of these roles are performed 
by subcontracted workers, who are 
often from other countries. Long 
subcontracting chains can make en-
suring fair conditions and preventing 
exploitation challenging.
In 2025, we piloted an enhanced 
contractor management model 
at two Finnish pulp mills during 
shutdowns. The model limits 
subcontracting chains to one main 
contractor and a maximum of 
two subcontractors. It also adds 
more detailed social responsibil-
ity requirements and improves 
UPM’s subcontractor approval and 
background checks. Additionally,  it 
includes face-to-face interviews with 
subcontractors’ employees.
We conducted over 100 contractor  
interviews during the shutdowns. The 
interviews revealed concerns related 
to overtime, compensation and 
safety equipment. Corrective actions 
have been initiated, and develop-
ment work continues. This work sup-
ports our zero-tolerance approach 
to exploitation and strengthens our 
commitment to safe and fair working 
environments.
CASE STUDYIn focus
  Sustainability Statement, ESRS S1 
Own workforce on page 208 
  Sustainability Statement, ESRS S2 
Workers in the value chain on page 222
  Sustainability Statement, ESRS S3 
Affected communities on page 229
UPM Annual Report 2025
74 75
UPM Annual Report 2025  
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
Our strategyUPM in brief Our businesses Sustainability

Committed to compliance 
Regardless of location, circumstances, or people involved,  
we are committed to complying with applicable laws,  
regulations, and our Code of Conduct.
We are all responsible for building a culture 
of integrity in everything we do and in 
every choice we make. Our Code of Conduct 
and values help us make the right decisions 
and guide our work in a changing business 
environment. This is the foundation for 
long-term success.
Actions in 2025  
• 94% (99%) of active employees 
completed the new Code of Conduct 
training started in September, excl. the 
UPM Adhesive Materials company 
acquired in 2025
• The UPM Code of Conduct was 
updated
• The Code of Conduct training for all 
personnel was renewed.
•  Compliance reviews in nine local 
units or operations in the Americas, 
the Asia-Pacific region and Europe.
  See more in our Sustainability Statement, 
ESRS G1 Business conduct on page 236
Creating value for people and society
We monitor the development of this 
culture through our annual Employee 
Engagement Survey (EES). In the EES, the 
average score for ethical behavior at UPM 
was 75 (74), while the external benchmark 
was 79 (79).
Compliance monitoring
UPM business areas  
and other operations
Regular discussions with management, 
monitoring significant projects, training rate monitoring,  
implementation of risk mitigation plan
Regular discussions with employees,
 third-party due diligence and risk monitoring, reports through UPM  
Report Misconduct channel, EES and other employee surveys
Regular  
compliance  
reviews 
based on Group 
company risk matrix
Our priorities
Risk assessment forms the basis of our 
compliance program
Each business area, unit, and function is 
responsible for identifying and managing its 
compliance risks. Annual and ad-hoc risk as-
sessments guide our compliance activities and 
mitigation actions. These actions are updated 
throughout the year to reflect changes in the 
risk environment.
Policies and procedures document what 
is expected of all employees 
Our compliance system is embedded in our 
governance model and is designed to promote 
a culture of integrity at all levels. As part of our 
policy management process, we review the need 
to update policies and procedures annually to 
ensure they remain relevant.
Ongoing training and communication 
help us make the right choices
Our e-learning modules on policies and proce-
dures are easily accessible to employees on a 
global e-learning platform. Completing these 
mandatory e-learning courses is a prerequisite 
for receiving short-term incentive payments. 
Training is also extended to employees of our 
business partners who work for UPM.  T ailored 
Our commitments
Compliance 
We are committed to complying with applicable 
laws, regulations, our Code of Conduct and our 
values – Trust and be trusted, Achieve together, 
Renew with courage. Our Code of Conduct 
reflects our respect for people, the planet, and 
ethical business practices.
Building a culture of integrity 
We never compromise on our standards of 
integrity in any circumstances. We aim to 
continuously improve how we work and further 
embed a culture of business integrity.
Accountability
Accountability for compliance extends from the 
Board of Directors and senior management to 
all employees.
Voicing concerns
We strive to create an environment in which 
employees feel comfortable about voicing their 
concerns without fear of retaliation.
training and active communication support 
compliance e-learning modules.
Comprehensive monitoring enables us to 
take action
Our monitoring activities are based on a risk 
matrix that considers country risk, complexity, 
and the scale of our operations in each country.
In addition, we conduct risk-based reviews on 
specific topics such as competition law and 
anti-corruption, as well as ongoing counter-
party screening activities. Key findings and 
recommendations from compliance reviews are 
reported to the Audit Committee of the Board 
of Directors and the businesses, which take any 
necessary follow-up action.
Response and remediation contribute to 
organisational justice
We encourage employees to report any 
misconduct or unethical behavior, without fear 
of retaliation. We have procedures in place 
to promptly, independently, and objectively 
investigate incidents of alleged misconduct. The 
UPM Report Misconduct channel is open both 
to our employees and external stakeholders, 
including contractors, suppliers, and affected 
communities.
UPM Annual Report 2025
76 77
UPM Annual Report 2025  
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
Our strategyUPM in brief Our businesses Sustainability

We provide compliance e-learnings also for the 
employees of our business partners who work 
on UPM premises or have access to our IT sys-
tems and tools. This is to ensure they share the 
same high standards of integrity with the UPM 
teams they collaborate closely with. 
The mandatory e-learning course on the 
new UPM Code of Conduct, our culture of 
integrity, and our expectations for employees 
is now available to the employees of our busi-
ness partners on the platform. Cybersecurity 
is another example of shared responsibility. 
Thus, the employees of business partners 
must also complete our cybersecurity e-learn-
ing course annually. 
We recently expanded to include training on 
the Supplier and Third-Party Code for these 
partners, further reinforcing our commitment 
to responsible business practices across the 
value chain.
In focus
Building integrity together every day
Alleged misconduct cases
UPM Code of Conduct section 2025 2024
Our commitment to integrity
01. Our commitment to integrity 1 10
Our people and operations
02. Respect people and human rights 47 57
03. Addressing environmental impact and sustainability of products 4 3
Business integrity
04. Zero-tolerance for corruption and bribery 6 2
05. Avoid conflicts of interest 10 8
06. Compliance with competition laws 0 1
07. Protect assets and information 18 13
Our Stakeholders
08. Know with whom you trade 11 5
09. Engaging with our stakeholders and society 0 0
Voice your concerns
10. Compliance involves everyone 0 0
Other 6 0
Total 103 99
Employee misappropriated UPM’s 
assets by seeking reimbursement for 
personal expenses from the company, in 
violation of UPM’s policies. T ermination of 
employment. 
Employee submitted a falsified invoice to 
conceal a gift that violated UPM’s policies. 
Warning. 
Employee approved a payment to an entity 
with which they had a personal affiliation, 
resulting in a conflict of interest in breach of 
UPM’s policies. Warning. 
The Code of Conduct reflects our respect for people, the planet, and ethical 
business practices and we demonstrate this through our actions.
How we build a culture of integrity
Mindset
T one from the top 
Lead by example 
Ethical behavior
Strong speak-up culture
Building organizational justice
Promoting 
a culture of 
integrity
Practices
Upholding the Code of Conduct
and other standards of integrity
Training and communication
Proactive advice
Fostering 
ethical 
decisions
Protecting the future
Risk identification
Risk mitigation and follow-up
Remediating and reacting  
to misconduct
Managing 
compliance 
risks
Strategy
Trust and be 
trusted
Achieve together
Renew with  
courage
Driving  
responsible 
growth...
...by ensuring  
integrity every day
UPM 
complianceUPM
UPM Annual Report 2025
78 79
UPM Annual Report 2025  
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
Our strategyUPM in brief Our businesses Sustainability

Ensuring a sustainable 
supply chain
An effective supply chain ensures a reliable and cost-competitive 
supply of materials and services worldwide in all market situations.
We work closely with our suppliers and 
contractors to continuously improve our 
supply chain's efficiency, transparency, and 
sustainability.
We buy products, materials and services 
from around 17,000 B2B suppliers world-
wide, including startups and international 
corporations. We also purchase wood from 
around 13,000 private forest owners.
Our main sourcing categories are fibres, 
chemicals, other raw materials, logistics, en-
ergy, and indirect purchases such as services. 
We select suppliers based on long-term sup-
ply reliability, cost-competitiveness, product 
and service quality, financial stability, social 
and environmental responsibility, product 
safety, and product carbon footprint.
Supplier management and digitalization 
support product development and the com-
mercialization of new products.
Our sustainable supply chain program 
outlines our responsible sourcing practices 
and priorities. It addresses environmental, 
Actions in 2025 
• 86% (91%) of total spend with suppliers 
committed to the UPM Supplier and 
Third-Party Code
• Our internal and external auditors con-
ducted 80 (97) audits worldwide based 
on identified risks related to social and 
environmental topics, including human 
rights. 347 sustainability-related findings 
were identified and none of them were 
considered critical with regard to actual 
or potential significant environmental or 
social impacts. 
• About 2,000 (3,200) contractor reviews 
carried out in Uruguay, focusing on working 
conditions
Strict requirements for wood 
sourcing 
All the wood we use is legally harvested 
and comes from sustainably managed 
forests. We verify that wood delivered to our 
mills complies with applicable timber and 
deforestation legislation, and other regional 
requirements.
We continuously assess our suppliers 
of wood, pulp, and recovered paper for 
their environmental and social respon-
sibility, and their involvement in the local 
community. These raw materials are either 
FSC™ (N003385) and PEFC (PEFC/02-
44-41) -certified or meet the FSC 
Controlled Wood standard or the PEFC 
due diligence requirements. We source all 
wood assortments to ensure optimal use 
of this valuable raw material. In 2025, we 
purchased 27.7 (28.0) million cubic meters 
of wood worldwide.
We share reliable and credible sustain-
ability information through collaborative 
organizations such as Together for Sustaina-
bility (TfS). 
We also use EcoVadis and other assess-
ments, supplier audits, reviews, and joint 
development plans to conduct more detailed 
evaluations of suppliers’ activities. All suppli-
ers are regularly screened using our counter-
party risk management tool.
If non-conformities are identified, the 
supplier is required to take corrective 
 
We renew the everyday - Together
Environment
Climate  
action
Labor and hu-
man rights
Business  
ethics and 
values
Biodiversity Health and 
safety
Responsible  
use of assets
Resources  
and  
circularity
Social GovernanceESG topics
Strategic  
focus
Ambition
Sustainability risk identification, assessment and mitigation in the supply chain
Transparent sharing of reliable and credible sustainability information between chain members
Compliance with applicable regulations and UPM requirements in the supply chain
Climate change 
mitigation in the 
supply chain
Biodiversity 
protection in the 
supply chain
Responsible 
resource use in  
the supply chain
Decent work  
in the supply  
chain
Health, safety  
and security in  
the supply chain
Ethical behavior 
and culture of 
integrity in the 
supply chain
Responsible 
use and 
management 
of assets in the 
supply chain
Risk  
mitigation
Compliance
Sustainable supply chain program
social, and governance topics that contribute 
to a responsible and resilient supply chain. 
The program includes instructions on 
relevant procurement and supply chain 
management practices and their impact on 
UPM, as well as supplier requirements. We 
manage and track implementation through 
our 2030 sustainability targets and perfor-
mance indicators.
Compliance with regulations and UPM 
requirements
We are committed to sustainability and eth-
ical practices throughout our supply chain 
in accordance with our Code of Conduct. The 
UPM Supplier and Third-Party Code defines 
the minimum level of performance we 
require from our suppliers and third-party 
intermediaries such as agents, joint venture 
partners, local partners, and distributors. 
We expect our suppliers to promote the 
same requirements in their own supply 
chains.
measures. We monitor the implementation 
of these measures and provide support to 
improve suppliers’ operations where neces-
sary. Some contracts may be terminated due 
to insufficient corrective measures or the 
severity of UPM’s findings.
  Group-wide -30 by 30 Program to reduce CO2 
emissions in the supply chain on page 58
  Sustainability Statement, ESRS G1 
Business conduct on page 236 
 More information on our website: For suppliers
We also implement additional, cate-
gory-specific requirements such as those 
related to the sourcing of wood, chemicals, 
pulp, packaging materials, and logistics. 
These requirements cover environmental 
performance, social responsibility, and 
reporting. Contractors working on our pro-
duction sites must comply with UPM’s safety 
requirements.
Risk mitigation
We identify the suppliers and supply chains  
most relevant to our business that have a 
high risk of potential negative environmen-
tal and social impacts. 
We have risk management contingency 
plans for suppliers identified as having a 
high sustainability risk. Our evaluation is 
based on country of origin, the sourced 
material or service, and UPM’s supply chain 
ESG risk register , which includes country, 
commodity, and sector-specific sustainability 
risk information.
Creating value for people and society
UPM Annual Report 2025
80 81
UPM Annual Report 2025  
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
Our strategyUPM in brief Our businesses Sustainability

Energy taxation at various levels of the value chain
Energy taxation is relevant to us not only as a significant electricity producer but also in our 
manufacturing processes and the taxation of end products, as well as taxation at various levels 
of the supply chain. 
Regardless of the sources used, the electricity we produce is subject to electricity taxation. The 
majority of our electricity generation is CO2-free hydropower and nuclear power.
In addition, our renewable products (UPM BioVerno diesel and naphtha) are subject to energy 
taxation. However, energy tax rates for transportation fuels from renewable and sustainable 
sources such as UPM BioVerno, are lower than those for fossil fuels.
Most of the energy used in our production processes is subject to energy taxation, with differ-
ent tax rates and exemptions, depending on the type of use. We also pay a significant amount of 
energy tax on fuels for logistics costs, particularly for road transportation.
Within the EU, energy taxation laws allow member states to compensate for the taxes paid 
or apply lower tax rates for industrial production, and the countries where we have production 
facilities, such as Finland and Germany, offer such tax relief.
Contributing to society through taxes
Our businesses play a significant role in contributing to the societal 
development of the surrounding communities by generating tax revenue.
The OECD, the G20 Forum, and the EU have 
addressed the tax challenges posed by global 
economic changes. These solutions aim to 
ensure that companies are taxed at a mini-
mum rate of 15% in their operating countries 
(Pillar Two) and introduce standardized 
public tax reporting. We have been transpar-
ent and responsible in our tax strategy for 
years. We welcome initiatives that promote 
standardized global tax reporting and fair 
and responsible tax payments. We monitor 
global tax developments, assessing their im-
pact on UPM and adjusting our tax reporting 
accordingly. 
In 2025, UPM’s effective tax rate was 
28.9% (7.4%), and the cash tax rate was 
14.1% (29.0%). The corporate income tax 
reported in 2025 was €200 million (€37 mil-
lion), and the corporate income tax paid was 
€97 million (€145 million).
Corporate income taxes paid and property 
taxes*) by country
€m 2025 2024
Finland 74 96
Uruguay 27 25
China 16 20
Poland 6 4
United Kingdom 3 1
United States 2 21
Estonia 2 2
Germany 2 1
France 0 2
Other 5 3
Group total 136 176
*) Property taxes include taxes on real estate, equity and 
similar properties paid by country
In addition to income taxes, our various 
production inputs and outputs are subject to 
taxation, which we either pay (e.g., energy tax 
or property tax such as taxes on real estate) or 
collect (e.g., VAT, payroll tax, and social securi-
ty contributions). We paid taxes on real estate, 
equity, and similar properties in various coun-
tries, totaling €39 million (€31 million).
The table on the right shows the corpo-
rate income tax and taxes on real estate, 
equity, and similar properties paid in our 
main countries of operation. Based on our 
corporate and operational structure, UPM 
mainly reports and pays its corporate in-
come tax in countries where production and 
innovating activity takes place.
Corporate income taxes vary by country
In Finland, we have significant production 
operations in our six business areas, as well 
as research and development operations. 
As a result, UPM is a significant taxpayer in 
Finland. UPM’s corporate income tax in Fin-
land in 2025 is estimated to be €66 million 
(€84 million), including taxes reported and 
paid by UPM-Kymmene Corporation and its 
Finnish subsidiaries.
In Uruguay, the government has granted 
several free-trade-zone permits for local and 
foreign investments. The Uruguayan govern-
ment has granted our pulp mills a permit to 
operate in a free-trade zone. Taxes in Uru-
guay therefore consist mainly of property 
and equity taxes, as well as annual tax-like 
charges paid to the Uruguayan government 
for the zone's development.
In China, as a fine paper producer , UPM 
has qualified as a high-tech enterprise with 
a reduced corporate income tax rate of 15%. 
UPM also pays withholding tax on dividends 
in China.
In countries such as Germany, where 
our companies use tax losses from previous 
years to offset the current year’s tax liability, 
limited corporate income tax is paid.
See more
A list of UPM's principal subsidiaries and 
joint operations, and their country of incor-
poration can be found on page 323. 
Third-party-verified EMAS reports on the 
environmental and societal responsibility 
of the pulp and paper mills can be found at 
upm.com/sustainability. 
Our commitments
Regulatory compliance
We pay taxes in accordance with local laws and 
regulations. We adhere to the principles and 
guidelines outlined in the UPM T ax Strategy, 
which is based on the standards of the UPM 
Code of Conduct.
Ethical tax practices 
The location of our companies is determined 
by economic and business considerations. 
We do not transfer value created or invest in 
production or service operations in jurisdictions 
defined by the Council of the European Union as 
non-cooperative jurisdictions for tax purposes, 
or in any similar secrecy jurisdictions.
Transparent reporting
We are committed to transparent and respon-
sible tax reporting. We pay corporate income 
taxes in countries where added value is created, 
and profit is generated.
Our priorities
Good governance
The Board of Directors’ Audit Committee super-
vises tax risk management as part of our risk 
management processes. UPM’s internal control 
and risk management function regularly reviews 
tax risks and updates the control framework 
in collaboration with the tax function. A more 
thorough review of customers' and suppliers' 
tax practices is part of our counterparty risk 
management processes.
The UPM T ax Strategy is supported by inter-
nal instructions and controls, and benchmark-
ing of best practices. Our tax function manages 
tax matters and is complemented by third-party 
tax services for local tax reporting, filing, and 
other requirements.
Contributing to society
Our mills contribute to local employment, 
income tax, and purchasing power and partici-
pate in projects with local communities.
Cooperation with the authorities
We aim to cooperate transparently and pro-
actively with the tax authorities. We also value 
dialogue with other important stakeholders on 
tax issues. In Finland, UPM cooperates with the 
Finnish T ax Administration.
Creating value for people and society
UPM Annual Report 2025
82 83
UPM Annual Report 2025  
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
Our strategyUPM in brief Our businesses Sustainability

Our activities and products have impacts on the environment and society. Understanding these impacts is a prerequisite to developing our operations.
Direct and indirect inputs and outputs provide a comprehensive picture of the value chain and form the basis for the impact assessment. 
Our societal and environmental impacts
1) Includes UPM shares in hydro, nuclear and condensing power as well as purchases from the market. 2) Based on calculations by Luke Finland: 5-year average of carbon sink and sources 
in UPM own and leased forests in Finland, Uruguay and the U.S. 3)  Read more on pages 50–53. 4) Read more on pages 54–58. 5)  Calculated using societal cost of carbon €100/tCO 2 (average 
damage cost per tonne of CO2). Source: EEA. Using European emissions allowance price would result in €166m.
Indirect upstream
Number of b2b suppliers 17 ,000
Private forest owners supplying 
wood to UPM 13,000
Seedlings planted 55 million
Supplier spend covered by UPM 
Supplier Code 86%
Certified wood 90%
Percentage of wood origin 
known 100%
Fossil CO2 emissions  
(Scope 2) 0.8m t
Fossil CO2 emissions  
(Scope 3 upstream) 4.0m t
Water intensive production sites 
located in water abundant areas 100%
New hires 1,700
Own and leased forests and 
plantations 1,094,000 ha
Direct upstream
Raw materials
Wood 28m m³
Market pulp 1.3m t
Recovered paper 0.5m t
Minerals 1.7m t
Chemicals 0.9m t
Purchased paper for 
converting 0.3m t
Plastic, adhesives, resins, films 0.2m t
Costs, raw materials €  4.1 billion
Water uptake
Surface water 395m m³
Ground water 10m m³
Communal water 4m m³
Energy
Renewable fuels 35,100 GWh
Fossil fuels 8,100 GWh
Purchased electricity 
and heat1) 14,400 GWh
Direct downstream
Products
Paper 4.3m t
Chemical pulp 5.2m t
Converting materials 0.5m t
Plywood and veneer 0.5m m³
Sawn timber 1.1m m³
Electricity and heat 14,100 GWh
Sales € 9,656m
Comparable EBIT € 921m
Patent and trademark portfolio 5,044
People and society
Employees   15,100
Shareholders 154,424
Training hours per employee 9
T otal recordable injury 
frequency incl. contractors 5.0
Dividend distribution € 792m
Employee wages  
and benefits € 1,155m
Corporate income taxes paid  
and property taxes € 136m
Indirect downstream
Number of customers 10,000 in  
110 countries
People using UPM 
products more than 300m
Local support and 
charitable donations 
under the UPM Share and 
Care Program
€ 1.7m
distributed
to about
210 groups
Virgin materials replaced 1.0m t
Value of products eligible  
for ecolabeling €7 .9 billion
UPM forests available for 
recreational use 599,000 ha
Fossil CO2 emissions  
(Scope 3 downstream) 3.7m t
T emporary carbon 
storage in  
UPM products' lifetime
-2.4m t
Carbon sink in UPM own  
and leased forests 2)
-1.9m t 
CO2 eq
 Impacts
Increasing knowledge and quality of life  
through our products
Vitality and prosperity for area of influence
Increased social capital and skills of 
employees
Well-being and safety of employees  
and contractors 
Biodiversity enhanced by various 
initiatives3)
Ecosystem services secured through 
sustainable forest management
Climate change mitigation through UPM's  
carbon actions 4) 
Value added €2.2 billion
Societal value of carbon sink of UPM own  
and leased forests €190m5 ) 
Societal cost of GHG emissions (Scope 1-3)  
€-1,060m 6)
Societal cost of other air emissions €-149m 7)
Recreational value of UPM forests €80m 8)
Societal value of paid taxes €165m 9)
  UPM's detailed material balance is available at upm.com/annualreport
Direct downstream
Emissions to air
Nitrogen oxides 8,800 t
Sulphur dioxide 760 t
Particulates 780 t
VOC 1,000 t
Fossil CO2 emissions (Scope 1) 2.1m t
Biogenic CO 2 emissions 12.1 m t
Emissions to water
Process wastewater 190m m³
Cooling water 190m m³
Biological oxygen demand 
(7 days) 5,300 t
Chemical oxygen demand 57,600 t
Adsorbable organic halogens 300 t
Process waste and by-products
Material recycling 323,000 dry t
Energy recovery 215,000 dry t
Composting 7,800 dry t
Landfilling 97,000 dry t
T emporary storage 17,000 dry t
Incineration without  
energy recovery 4,600 dry t
Hazardous waste for special 
treatment 7 ,000 t
6) Calculated using societal cost of carbon €100/tCO 2 (average damage cost per tonne of CO2). Source: EEA. Using European emissions allowance price would result in €-926m.  
7) Calculated using societal cost of each air emissions (NOx, SO2 and VOC). Source: EEA. 8) Based on pilot study by Gaia. Read more on upm.com/sustainability. 9) Calculated  using corporate 
income and property taxes, and adjusted for higher social value of money in lower-income countries. Source: Value Balancing Alliance
UPM Annual Report 2025
84 85
UPM Annual Report 2025  
We are UPM Governance Accounts and performance
Our strategyUPM in brief Our businesses Sustainability

Corporate Governance Statement   88
Board of Directors   90
Group Executive T eam   101
Remuneration Report   108
Governance
UPM Annual Report 2025
86 87
UPM Annual Report 2025  86 UPM Annual Report 2025
Accounts and performanceWe are UPM Governance
Group Executive T eam Remuneration ReportBoard of Directors Corporate Governance Statement
Corporate Governance  
Statement 2025
UPM-Kymmene Corporation (UPM or the Company) follows the Finnish Corporate Governance Code (CG 
Code) issued by the Securities Market Association and complies with all recommendations of the CG Code 
including the requirement that at least 40% of the members of the Board must be from an underrepresented 
gender. The CG Code is publicly available on the Securities Market Association’s website at cgfinland.fi/en.
UPM’s Corporate Governance Statement 
(CG Statement) for the financial year 2025 
has been prepared in accordance with the 
CG Code’s corporate governance reporting 
section. UPM presents the CG Statement as a 
separate report, distinct from the Report of 
the Board of Directors. The CG Statement is 
available on the corporate website’s Inves-
tors section under Governance (upm.com/
governance).
The Report of the Board of Directors is 
presented on pages 116–257 of UPM’s Annual 
Report 2025, which is also available on the 
corporate website.
Remuneration Committee
Nomination and Governance Committee
Audit Committee
Reports
Chairs
Reports
Chairs
Reports
Chairs
General meeting of shareholders
Board of Directors
ElectsElects Issues Auditor’s Report
Appoints, 
steers, monitors
Reports
Reports
Reports
Reports
Appoints
President and CEO
Group Executive Team
Assists the President 
and CEO in respect of 
approving and executing 
Group-level guidelines 
and procedures.
Assists the President and 
CEO in matters pertaining 
to the preparation 
of Group strategies, 
strategic projects, 
capital expenditure, 
M&A and other strategic 
development initiatives 
for approval by the Board 
of Directors.
Assists the President and CEO 
regarding business-area-level 
decision-making in matters pertaining 
to each business area’s strategy, 
budget, business performance, 
operative investments, commercial 
strategies, business development 
plans, business and strategic risks, 
strategic and organizational changes, 
and HR matters.
Report Assist
Strategy TeamBusiness Area Boards
Auditor and 
Sustainability report assurer
Internal audit
Governance structure of UPM-Kymmene Corporation
of shares and votes represented in 
the AGM 2025
55%
shareholders represented in  
the AGM 2025
3,031
Compliance, and responsible and ethical 
practices are the foundation of UPM’s busi-
nesses. In addition to the Finnish CG Code, 
the Company follows the Finnish Limited 
Liability Companies Act and other laws and 
regulations applicable to publicly listed com-
panies in Finland, the Company’s Articles of 
Association, Board and committee charters, 
corporate policies and rules, as well as rules 
and guidelines issued by the European 
Securities and Markets Authority, the Finnish 
Financial Supervisory Authority, and the 
Nasdaq Helsinki stock exchange.
Annual General Meeting 2025
The Company’s Annual General Meeting 
(AGM) for 2025 was held in Helsinki on 
March 27, 2025. Notice of the AGM, includ-
ing proposals by the Board of Directors and 
the Nomination and Governance Commit-
tee, was published in February. A total of 
UPM’s governance structure
UPM is a Finnish limited liability company 
with headquarters in Helsinki, Finland. 
The Parent Company, UPM-Kymmene 
Corporation, and its subsidiaries form UPM 
Group, with approximately 15,100 employ-
ees in 42 countries. UPM Group’s business 
operations are divided into six business 
areas and other operations, including the 
UPM Biorefining business unit and global 
functions. UPM shares are listed on Nasdaq 
Helsinki Ltd.
UPM uses a one-tier governance model, 
which, in addition to the general meeting 
of shareholders, comprises the Board of 
Directors and the President and CEO, as pre-
sented in the illustration on the right. In the 
operative management of the Company, the 
President and CEO is assisted by the Group 
Executive Team, the Business Area Boards 
and the Strategy Team.
Governance framework
UPM’s decision-making, management and 
operations are guided by our values and by 
the UPM Code of Conduct. UPM’s values and 
UPM Code of Conduct form the framework 
for all Company operations and set out 
standards of behavior for UPM employees, 
including directors and executives.
3,031 (3,167) shareholders were represented 
at the meeting. Shareholders attending 
the meeting represented 55% (60%) of 
the Company’s shares and voting rights at 
the time of the AGM. The AGM supported 
all proposals by the Board of Directors or 
the Board’s Nomination and Governance 
Committee, and the decisions at the AGM 
2025 were made in accordance with the 
proposals.
Board of Directors
The AGM 2025 resolved to elect nine mem-
bers to UPM’s Board of Directors for a one-
year term and re-elected Pia Aaltonen-For-
sell, Henrik Ehrnrooth, Jari Gustafsson, 
Piia-Noora Kauppi, Melanie Maas-Brunner , 
Topi Manner , Marjan Oudeman, Martin à 
Porta and Kim Wahl to the Board. All direc-
tors are non-executive, and their term of 
office will end with the closure of AGM 2026. 
UPM Annual Report 2025
88 89
UPM Annual Report 2025  
Accounts and performanceWe are UPM Governance
Group Executive T eam Remuneration ReportBoard of Directors Corporate Governance Statement

Composition of the Board of Directors, December 31, 2025
Henrik Ehrnrooth
Chair of the Board and Chair of the Nomination and Governance Committee
Director since 2015
Independence Independent of the Company and significant shareholders
Education M.Sc (Econ.)
Nationality Finnish
Born 1969
Gender male
Main occupation Senior Industrial Partner at CVC
UPM shares1) 3 4,474
Piia-Noora Kauppi
Director since 20132)  
Independence Independent of the Company and significant shareholders
Education LLM
Nationality Finnish
Born 1975
Gender female
Main occupation Partner at Odgers Finland Oy
UPM shares1) 29,248
Kim Wahl
 Kim Wahl
Deputy Chair of the Board
Director since 20122)  
Independence Independent of the Company and significant shareholders
Education MBA (Harvard), BA (Business Econ.)
Nationality Norwegian
Born 1960
Gender male
Main occupation Chair of the Board of Strømstangen AS
UPM shares1) 32,335
Martin à Porta
Pia Aaltonen-Forsell
Chair of the Audit Committee
Director since 2023
Independence Independent of the Company and significant shareholders
Education M.Soc.Sc. (Econ.), MBA
Nationality Finnish
Born 1974
Gender female
Main occupation CFO of Finnair Plc
UPM shares1) 5,213
Jari Gustafsson
Director since 2021
Independence Independent of the Company and significant shareholders
Education M.Sc (Political Science)
Nationality Finnish
Born 1958
Gender male
Main occupation Partner at AlterInvest Oy
UPM shares1) 8,049
Melanie Maas-Brunner
Director since 2024
Independence Independent of the Company and significant shareholders
Education PhD (Chemistry)
Nationality German
Born 1968
Gender female
Main occupation Non-executive director 
UPM shares1) 3,547
Topi Manner
Director since 2022
Independence Independent of the Company and significant shareholders
Education M.Sc (Econ.)
Nationality Finnish
Born 1974
Gender male
Main occupation CEO of Elisa Corporation
UPM shares1) 10,014
Marjan Oudeman
Director since 2018
Independence Independent of the Company and significant shareholders
Education LLM, MBA
Nationality Dutch
Born 1958
Gender female
Main occupation Non-executive director
UPM shares1) 14,807
Martin à Porta
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
Director since 2020
Independence Independent of the Company and significant shareholders
Education M.Sc (Eng.)
Nationality Swiss
Born 1970
Gender male
Main occupation Non-executive director
UPM shares1) 30,057
1) on December 31, 2025, and including shares held by the director’s controlled entities if any.
2)  not available for re-election at the AGM 2026.
UPM Annual Report 2025
90 91
UPM Annual Report 2025  
Accounts and performanceWe are UPM Governance
Group Executive T eam Remuneration ReportCorporate Governance Statement Board of Directors 

Director independence
Independence evaluation process
The Board of Directors evaluates the inde-
pendence of its members, both annually and 
on a continuous basis, with the assistance 
of the Board’s Nomination and Governance 
Committee. A Board member is obliged to 
provide sufficient information for the eval-
uation of their independence and to express 
their own opinion of their independence.
Independence criteria
Director independence is assessed based on 
the independence criteria of the CG Code, in 
addition to other factors and circumstances 
to be considered when carrying out an over-
all evaluation, from the perspective of both 
the Company and the Board of Directors. The 
Nomination and Governance Committee also 
considers additional director independence 
criteria it adopts. These criteria are available 
at upm.com/governance.
Director independence is assessed 
overall and in relation to UPM, its Group 
companies and the Company’s significant 
shareholders. A shareholder with a share-
holding of at least 10% of the Company’s 
shares, or the votes attached thereto, or 
with the right or obligation to acquire the 
corresponding number of shares already 
issued, is deemed significant. The majority 
of directors must be independent of the 
Company, and at least two directors of this 
majority must be independent of significant 
shareholders. To be considered independent 
of the Company, a director must not have 
a material relationship with the Company 
other than their service as a director . In the 
overall assessment of a director’s independ-
ence, any material relationships with a 
director’s family members or closely related 
persons or entities are also taken into ac-
count, in addition to any other factors that 
may compromise the director’s independ-
ence or ability to represent all shareholders.
UPM director independence
According to the evaluation carried out by 
the Board with the assistance of the Nomina-
tion and Governance Committee, all Board 
members are independent of the Company’s 
significant shareholders, as the Company 
has no controlling shareholder , and none of 
the Company’s shareholders has announced 
a holding of 10% or more of the Company’s 
shares or votes attached thereto.
All the directors are non-executive, and 
the Board has also concluded that they are 
all independent of the Company, includ-
ing Henrik Ehrnrooth, Piia-Noora Kauppi 
and Kim Wahl, although they have been 
non-executive directors of the Company for 
ten consecutive years or more. Based on the 
Board diversity – tenure
1–4 years, 33%
5–9 years, 33%
>10 years, 33 %
Board diversity – age
46–50, 11%
51–55, 33%
56–60, 22%
>61, 33%
Gender
44% 
women and 56% men
Nationalities
5 
Represented nationalities:  
Finnish (56%), Norwegian (11%), Dutch (11%,),  
German (11%) and Swiss (11%)
Education
100%
of members have a university degree,  
and one has a doctorate
MBA (33%), MSc (Econ.) (33%), LLM (22%), 
PhD (Chem.) (11%), MSc (Polit.) (11%) and  
BA (Business Econ.) (11%)
Board’s overall evaluation of the independ-
ence of these directors, their long-standing 
service does not compromise their independ-
ence, and no other factors or circumstances 
have been identified that could affect their 
independence.
Board diversity
The Board’s diversity principles are included 
in the Board and committee charters and, 
more specifically, in the Board’s Diversity 
Policy. The Board of Directors’ Nomination 
and Governance Committee assists the Board 
in the implementation of the policy and 
prepares the Board’s proposal on the compo-
sition of the Board to the AGM, in accordance 
with the director evaluation and nomination 
process specified in the policy. The Board’s 
Diversity Policy aims to set objectives and 
procedures for achieving appropriate 
diversity on the Board, thereby contributing 
to the effective functioning of the Board as a 
team. The Board updated its Diversity Policy 
in December 2024, and it is available at upm.
com/governance.
Diversity aspects and objectives
The overarching goal of diversity is for the 
Board as a whole to have a broad range of 
skills, experience and perspectives, as well as 
knowledge of UPM and relevant industries, 
so that the Board can effectively accomplish 
its responsibilities, especially those pertain-
ing to strategy and risk management.
The Board considers it important that all 
directors are individuals of high integrity 
with the ability to exercise sound judgment 
on a broad range of issues. For the Board 
to comprise an appropriate mix of relevant 
knowledge and experience, as well as have 
independence of judgment and diverse 
perspectives, the Board has set an objective 
for certain key qualifications to be sufficient-
ly represented on the Board. A sufficient 
number of the directors on the Board are 
expected to have the relevant professional 
experience and education to provide a sound 
appreciation of issues pertinent to publicly 
listed companies of a size and scope corre-
sponding to that of UPM, including:
• Relevant industrial, market and sectoral 
experience
• Financial and risk management 
experience
• Sustainability and governance experience
• Cybersecurity experience
• Experience in the planning and 
implementation of company strategies 
• International experience.
Regarding other factors relevant to Board 
diversity, the Board aims to include an 
appropriate number of directors of different 
nationalities, ages, genders and lengths of 
service. The Board has set the following 
measurable objective: The representation of 
genders in the Board shall be balanced. The 
Company follows the goal set in the Limited 
Liability Companies Act to have at least 40% 
(including the relevant rounding rules) of 
the underrepresented gender on the Board. 
Where two candidates are equally quali-
fied, priority is given to the candidate of the 
underrepresented gender .
There is no set retirement age for the 
Board, but, as stated in the Board’s Diversity 
Policy, because UPM’s strategic agenda, risks 
and operating needs evolve over time, it is 
acknowledged that the Board will review its 
skills and experience to develop and refresh 
its competencies and other relevant qualities 
as needs arise.
Implementation and results
There are nine directors on the Board. 
Each member of the Board has a university 
degree, and one has a doctorate. The said de-
grees cover different areas of study, with the 
majority in finance, economics or business 
administration. All the directors have inter-
national professional experience in various 
types of positions, and they are or have been 
executives or non-executive members of the 
Board of Directors of both listed and unlisted 
companies. The cultural background of the 
Board is also diverse. The members repre-
sent five different nationalities and speak six 
different languages as their mother tongue. 
Regarding age, the directors on the Board 
evenly represent different ages between 50 
and 67. Likewise, their length of service is 
evenly spread: One third of directors have 
served on the UPM Board for ten years or 
more; one third for five to nine years; and 
one third for less than five years. Regarding 
the representation of both genders on the 
Board, female directors account for 44% (4/9) 
of UPM’s directors. 
Board duties
The Board is responsible for the oversight 
and control of the entire UPM Group, and 
for ensuring that the Company’s adminis-
tration and operations, as well as control of 
its accounts and finances, are duly in place. 
The Board approves the Company’s financial 
statements, other financial reports and the 
Report of the Board of Directors, including 
the Sustainability Statement, determines 
the Company’s Dividend Policy, and makes a 
proposal to the AGM for the distribution of 
profits and payment of dividends. The Board 
convened according to its original meeting 
schedule and held additional meetings as 
required.
The Board has prepared a written charter 
of its work, including the Board’s main du-
ties and operating principles. The duties and 
responsibilities of the Board of Directors, as 
defined in the charter , are presented on the 
next page. This charter is available at upm.
com/governance.
UPM Annual Report 2025
92 93
UPM Annual Report 2025  
Accounts and performanceWe are UPM Governance
Group Executive T eam Remuneration ReportCorporate Governance Statement Board of Directors 

Board of Directors’ duties and responsibilities
Strategy • Review and approve the Company’s strategic objectives
• Review and approve the strategic plans of the Company and its business areas annually
• Monitor the implementation of the strategic plans
Financial performance • Review and approve the Company’s financial targets
• Monitor the Company’s financial performance
Financial and 
statutory sustainability 
reporting
• Monitor and assess the Company’s financial reporting process
• Oversee the integrity of financial reporting
• Approve the Company’s financial reports
Sustainability • Oversee the Company's key sustainability focus areas and targets 
• Oversee the Company’s double materiality assessment (DMA) process 
• Oversee the management of material sustainability impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs)
Restructurings, 
investments, financing, 
M&A
• Review and approve major corporate plans and transactions
• Establish limits for capital expenditures, investments and divestitures and financial commitments not to be exceeded without 
Board approval
• Review and approve the Company’s annual investment frame
Internal control • Ensure that the Company has defined the operating principles of internal control
• Monitor and assess the effectiveness of internal control
Risk management • Monitor and assess the effectiveness of risk management systems
• Oversee the assessment and management of risks related to the Company’s strategy and operations
Audit of financial 
information and 
assurance of statutory 
sustainability reporting
• Monitor the Company’s audit and assurance related to statutory sustainability reporting
• Monitor and assess the auditor’s performance and independence and the performance and independence of the 
sustainability report assurer
• Monitor and assess the provision of non-audit and non-assurance services by the auditor and the sustainability report 
assurer
• Prepare the proposal for the election of auditor and the sustainability report assurer, as well as their fees
• Meet regularly with the auditor without members of management present
Appointments • Appoint and dismiss the President and CEO
• Appoint members of senior management reporting directly to the President and CEO
• Appoint the Chair and the Deputy Chair from among its members annually
• Appoint Chairs and members of the Board Committees annually
Management 
remuneration
• Approve the service contracts for the President and CEO and other senior executives
• Approve the remuneration, including salaries, incentives and other financial benefits, for the President and CEO and other 
senior executives
Succession planning • Oversee the succession planning of the President and CEO and other senior executives
Governance principles • Approve the Company’s Code of Conduct and other corporate policies
• Oversee the establishment of the Company’s values to be applied to its operations
• Periodically review and reassess the adequacy of the Board and Committee charters
Compliance • Monitor compliance with the applicable legal and regulatory requirements
• Monitor compliance with the corporate policies approved by the Board
Conflicts of interest • Establish the principles concerning the monitoring and evaluation of related party transactions and review any potential 
conflicts of interest accordingly
Committees • Establish specific Committees to assist the Board
• Determine the size and composition of the Committees
• Approve the Committee charters
Director independence • Evaluate director independence and qualifications annually
• Monitor compliance with independence criteria applicable to directors
Evaluation • Conduct an annual evaluation of its performance and working methods
• Conduct an annual evaluation of the committees' performance and working methods
Other • Meet regularly without members of management present
• Consider proposals submitted by shareholders for matters to be addressed at the general meeting
Attendance at meetings
There is no minimum attendance requirement for directors’ attendance at meetings, but they are expected to attend all meetings unless there is a 
valid reason for non-attendance. In 2025, the Board held 14 meetings. The average rate of attendance at the meetings was 100% (100%).
Attendance at meetings 2025
Director Board of Directors Audit Committee
Nomination and 
Governance 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Total 
attendance 
 rate
Meetings held in 2025 14 6 5 5
Henrik Ehrnrooth, Chair 14 (as chair) (100%) 5 (as chair) (100%) 100%
Kim Wahl, Deputy Chair 14 (100%) 5 (100%) 100%
Pia Aaltonen-Forsell 14 (100%) 6 (as chair) (100%) 100%
Jari Gustafsson 14 (100%) 6 (100%) 100%
Piia-Noora Kauppi 14 (100%) 5 (100%) 100%
Melanie Maas-Brunner 14 (100%) 5 (100%) 100%
T opi Manner 14 (100%) 5 (100%) 100%
Marjan Oudeman 14 (100%) 6 (100%) 100%
Martin à Porta 14 (100%) 5 (as chair) (100%) 100%
Performance evaluation of the Board of 
Directors
The Board of Directors conducts an annual 
evaluation of its performance and working 
methods, including an evaluation of the 
performance and working methods of its 
committees. In 2025, the evaluation was 
conducted as a self-evaluation, and the most 
recent performance evaluation conducted 
by an external facilitator was conducted in 
2023. Its results were thoroughly discussed 
and analyzed in connection with the Board 
meeting. The Board members evaluated the 
performance of the Board and its commit-
tees in relation to their respective duties and 
responsibilities, the Board and Committee 
compositions and structure, the Board cul-
ture, the effectiveness of the Board and com-
mittee meetings, the individual performance 
of Board members, and the performance of 
the Chair of the Board.
The overall results of the 2025 self-eval-
uation were highly favorable, indicating 
that the Board, the Chair of the Board and 
the Board Committees were performing 
effectively, and that Board members were 
committed to their Board work. Identified 
areas for improvement are considered when 
planning Board-related work, and the Nomi-
nation and Governance Committee considers 
the results when preparing its proposals for 
the composition of the Board for the Annual 
General Meeting.
Board committees
The Board has established the following 
three committees to further improve the 
preparation of matters to be decided by the 
Board:
• Audit Committee
• Remuneration Committee and
• Nomination and Governance Committee
The Board appoints the members of each 
committee and its respective Chair from 
among its members annually during its 
constitutive meeting following the Annual 
General Meeting. Each committee has at least 
three members.
The Board remains responsible for the 
performance of any duties assigned to the 
committees. The committees do not have 
any independent decision-making power . 
Instead, the Board makes decisions based 
on the preparation and resolution proposals 
provided by the committees. The committees 
also assist the Board in its oversight and 
monitoring responsibilities.
All committee members are independ-
ent both of the Company and its significant 
shareholders, so the committees fulfill their 
respective independence criteria as set out 
in the Finnish CG Code. In the appointment 
of committee members, the respective qual-
ification requirements have also been taken 
into account. The attendance rate of each 
committee member at committee meetings is 
available in the table above.
Committee charters
The written committee charters approved by 
the Board of Directors set forth the purpose, 
operations and duties of each committee, 
as well as the prerequisites of committee 
membership. Each committee is responsible 
for performing the duties assigned to it in its 
charter . The committee charters are availa-
ble at upm.com/governance.
Committee-related work
The committees hold their meetings prior to 
Board meetings to prepare matters to be dis-
UPM Annual Report 2025
94 95
UPM Annual Report 2025  
Accounts and performanceWe are UPM Governance
Group Executive T eam Remuneration ReportCorporate Governance Statement Board of Directors 

cussed and resolved by the Board. The chairs 
of each committee report on matters discussed 
and actions taken by the committees during 
the Board meetings. In addition, the minutes 
from the committee meetings are available to 
all Board members for information.
The committees periodically review and 
reassess the adequacy of their charters and 
propose any changes they consider neces-
sary to the Board for approval.
Each year , the committees conduct a 
self-evaluation and evaluate the perfor-
mance of their duties and responsibilities 
and working methods, the composition of 
the committee, and the effectiveness of com-
mittee meetings. The chairs of each commit-
tee report on the results of these evaluations 
to the Chair of the Nomination and Govern-
ance Committee. In 2025, the self-evaluation 
was conducted in November , and the results 
were discussed and analyzed in December .
In 2023, the performance evaluations of 
all committees were also facilitated by an 
external evaluator and were conducted in 
connection with the performance evaluation 
of the Board.
More information about committee 
duties and responsibilities according to their 
respective committee charters is available on 
the following pages.
Audit committee’s duties and responsibilities
Financial and 
statutory sustainability 
reporting
• Monitor and assess both the financial reporting processes and the statutory sustainability reporting processes
• Submit recommendations or proposals to ensure the integrity of the financial and statutory sustainability reporting processes
• Monitor the quality and integrity of the financial statements, other financial reports and statutory sustainability reporting
• Review the Report of the Board of Directors, including information about statutory sustainability reporting 
Financial performance • Monitor the Company’s financial performance
• Review the Company’s annual financial statements and half-year and interim financial reports
• Generally discuss with management the nature of the financial information and earning guidance provided to the market
Internal control • Monitor and assess the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control
Internal audit • Monitor and assess the effectiveness of the Company’s internal audit
• Review the Company’s policies with respect to the internal audit
• Review internal audit reports
• Approve the annual internal audit plan and budget
• Review the organization, responsibilities and staffing of the internal audit function periodically
• Meet separately with the internal auditor at least twice a year
Sustainability • Oversee the Company's key sustainability focus areas and targets
• Oversee the double materiality assessment (DMA) process
• Oversee the management of material sustainability impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs)
Risk management • Monitor and assess the Company’s risk management process
• Monitor and assess the effectiveness of the Company’s risk management systems
• Review the Company’s policies with respect to risk assessment and risk management
• Oversee the alignment of risk management activities with these policies
• Review the organization, responsibilities and staffing of the risk management function periodically
Audit of financial 
information and 
assurance of statutory 
sustainability 
reporting
• Monitor the statutory audit of the financial statements and consolidated financial statements, as well as the assurance of the statutory sustainability 
report, including the identification of reported items and digital reporting
• Inform the Board of the outcome of the statutory audit and the assurance of the statutory sustainability reporting, and explain how it contributed to the 
integrity of the financial reporting and the statutory sustainability reporting
• Oversee the arrangement of tendering processes for audit services and sustainability reporting assurance services
• Approve annual audit fees and the fees of the sustainability report assurer under the guidance of the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting
• Review the scope, planning and staffing of the annual audit plan and statutory sustainabilitiy reporting assurance plan
• Evaluate the appropriateness of the auditor’s provision of audit-related and non-audit services and the sustainability report assurer’s assurance 
services, and approve related fees
Auditor of financial 
information and 
assurer of statutory 
sustainability 
reporting
• Be responsible for both the auditor’s and the sustainability report assurer’s selection procedures
• Prepare the proposal for both the auditor’s and the sustainability report assurer’s remuneration
• Prepare the proposal for the auditor’s and the sustainability report assurer’s election or re-election
• Evaluate the auditor’s and the sustainability report assurer’s qualifications and performance
• Monitor and assess the auditor’s and statutory sustainability report assurer’s independence
• Review the experience, qualifications and performance of senior members of the audit engagement team
• Ensure the rotation of the auditor’s lead audit partner at least every seven years
• Meet separately with the auditor and statutory sustainability report assurer at least twice a year
Compliance • Monitor and assess the effectiveness of the Company’s compliance system
• Review compliance reports
• Review the organization, responsibilities and staffing of the compliance function periodically
• Review any legal matters that may have a significant impact on the Company’s financial position
• Review any material reports or inquiries from regulatory or governmental agencies
• Review the Company’s Code of Conduct
• Review compliance with the Code of Conduct and other corporate policies approved by the Board
• Oversee procedures for treatment of complaints and concerns submitted to the Company anonymously or otherwise
• Review the Company’s annual Corporate Governance Statement
Conflicts of interest • Assist the Board in the establishment of principles concerning the monitoring and evaluation of related party transactions
• Monitor and assess how agreements and other legal acts between the Company and its related parties meet the requirements of ordinary course of 
business and market terms
• Review any questions of potential conflicts of interest in contemplated transactions with the Company’s related parties that require Board approval
• Make recommendations to the Board for appropriate actions regarding contemplated related party transactions that require Board approval
Other • Meet separately with representatives of management at least twice a year
• Meet regularly without members of management present
• Perform other duties and functions that may be assigned by the Board, or deemed necessary or appropriate by the committee for the performance of 
its oversight function
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial and statutory sustainability reporting processes and financial and 
statutory sustainability reporting, internal control, internal audit and risk management, and for monitoring the Company’s audit, statutory sus-
tainability reporting assurance and compliance procedures.
In addition to undertaking the assigned matters and regular reports listed above, the Audit Committee discussed and reviewed reports on ESG 
and cybersecurity.
Audit Committee Nomination and Governance Committee Remuneration Committee
Pia Aaltonen-Forsell, chair Henrik Ehrnrooth, chair Martin à Porta, chair
Jari Gustafsson Piia-Noora Kauppi Melanie Maas-Brunner
Marjan Oudeman Kim Wahl T opi Manner
• All members are independent of the Company 
and significant shareholders
• All members are independent of the Company 
and significant shareholders
• All members are independent of the Company 
and significant shareholders
• Held 6 meetings in 2025 • Held 5 meetings in 2025 • Held 5 meetings in 2025
• Average attendance rate of committee 
members was 100%
• Average attendance rate of committee 
members was 100%
• Average attendance rate of committee 
members was 100%
UPM Annual Report 2025
96 97
UPM Annual Report 2025  
Accounts and performanceWe are UPM Governance
Group Executive T eam Remuneration ReportCorporate Governance Statement Board of Directors 

Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for preparing the Company’s remuneration principles and practices, and for planning the remuner-
ation of the President and CEO, as well as the remuneration and succession of other senior executives.
Remuneration Committee’s duties and responsibilities
Remuneration 
framework
• Review and make recommendations to the Board with respect to the Company’s remuneration schemes and annually 
commencing plans
• Prepare the Remuneration Policy for Board approval and review its appropriateness at least annually
• Present the Remuneration Policy for governing bodies to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting
Service contracts • Make recommendations to the Board concerning the terms and conditions of the service contracts with senior executives
• Make recommendations to the Board concerning the terms and conditions of any severance arrangements or retention plans 
or agreements in addition to or in replacement of such agreements with senior executives
Management 
remuneration
• Make recommendations to the Board concerning salaries and other financial benefits for the President and CEO and other 
senior executives
• Make recommendations to the Board for the payout of short- and long-term incentives to the President and CEO and other 
senior executives
• Prepare the annual Remuneration Report for Board approval
• Present the Remuneration Report to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting
Incentive schemes • Review and make recommendations to the Board with respect to the Company’s remuneration schemes and annually 
commencing plans, including short-term incentive plans, long-term incentive plans and pension plans
• Review and make recommendations to the Board regarding short- and long-term performance measures and related targets 
and weightings relevant to the remuneration of the Company’s President and CEO and other senior executives
• Evaluate the performance of the President and CEO and review the performance of other senior executives in light of the set 
targets at least once a year
• Oversee the administration of the Company’s incentive plans approved by the Board
Sustainability • Review how remuneration is linked to material sustainability topics
• Review selected material social sustainability topics regarding the Company’s own workforce
Succession planning • Review procedures and development strategies for senior positions at least once a year
• Review succession plans for senior executives and report to the Board on such matters at least once a year
Compliance • Oversee regulatory compliance with respect to remuneration matters
• Review the Company’s share ownership recommendations and compliance therewith
Other • Meet without members of executive management present at least once a year
• Meet with the internal auditor as necessary
• Meet with the auditor as necessary
• Meet with the Company executives as necessary
• Perform any other duties or responsibilities delegated to the committee by the Board from time to time
In addition to undertaking the assigned matters and regular reports listed above, the Remuneration Committee focused on the performance 
measures of the incentive plans in 2025. The Committee made recommendations to the Board concerning the remuneration of the President and 
CEO and other senior executives, and concerning the Terms of Service agreements of the new Executive Vice Presidents: EVP, UPM Plywood and 
EVP, General Counsel appointed in 2025.
Nomination and Governance Committee’s duties and responsibilities
Board composition • Develop and recommend a set of principles for the diversity of the Board and for corporate governance to the Board
• Review the structure, size, composition, diversity and successional needs of the Board
• Prepare a proposal for the election or re-election of members of the Board and present the said proposal to the general 
meeting
• Identify candidates for election or re-election to the Board
• Evaluate shareholders’ potential proposals regarding Board candidates
Board remuneration • Assist the Board in the preparation of the Remuneration Policy and annual remuneration reports with the Remuneration 
Committee
• Review Board members’ remuneration annually
• Prepare a proposal to the general meeting for the remuneration of Board members in accordance with the Remuneration 
Policy
• Present the proposal regarding Board members’ remuneration to the general meeting
Director independence • Assist the Board in the evaluation of the independence of the Board members and candidates
• Assist the Board in monitoring compliance with the independence criteria applicable to directors of publicly listed companies in 
Finland
• Assist the Board in the assessment of the directors’ ability to devote the necessary time and attention to the Company
Board evaluation • Establish criteria for the Board’s evaluation of its performance and working methods
• Assist the Board in the annual evaluation of its performance and working methods
Succession planning • Review succession plan for the President and CEO at least annually and report to the Board on said succession plan
Appointments • Recommend the appointment of the Chair and Deputy Chair of the Board for Board approval
• Identify individuals qualified to serve as the President and CEO
• Prepare for the appointment of the President and CEO
• Recommend the appointment of the President and CEO to the Board
Service agreement 
and severance 
arrangement
• Recommend the terms of service agreement of the President and CEO for Board approval
• If necessary, recommend a severance arrangement or retention plan or agreement in addition to or in replacement of such 
agreements for Board approval
Committees • Review committee assignments and composition annually
• Recommend committee members and chairs of the committees to the Board annually
• Establish criteria for the committees’ annual evaluation of their performance and working methods
• Assist the committees in the annual evaluation of their performance and working methods
Charters • Review and reassess the adequacy of the Board and committee charters periodically
Other • Oversee skills and expertise in sustainability and business conduct matters
• Assist the Board in connection with major management reorganization
• Meet without members of management present as necessary
• Perform any other duties or responsibilities delegated to the committee by the Board from time to time
Nomination and Governance Committee
The Nomination and Governance Committee is responsible for the composition, diversity and remuneration of the Board of Directors, succession 
planning for the President and CEO, and corporate governance. If necessary, the committee also makes recommendations to the Board concern-
ing the President and CEO’s terms of service agreement, and any severance arrangement or retention plan or agreement in addition to or in 
replacement of such agreements.
In 2025, in addition to undertaking the assigned matters and regular reports listed above, the Nomination and Governance Committee discussed the 
skills and experience required in the Board in respect of the Company’s strategy, focusing on Board composition and the Board’s succession plan.  
UPM Annual Report 2025
98 99
UPM Annual Report 2025  
Accounts and performanceWe are UPM Governance
Group Executive T eam Remuneration ReportCorporate Governance Statement Board of Directors 

President and CEO
Massimo Reynaudo has been the President 
and Chief Executive Officer of UPM-Kymmene 
Corporation since January 1, 2024. He was 
born in 1969 and holds a master’s degree in 
engineering from Politecnico di Torino with a 
specialization in management and  business 
administration. He is an Italian citizen.
The President and CEO’s duty is to man-
age and oversee the Company’s day-to-day 
business operations in accordance with the 
instructions and orders given by the Board 
of Directors. In the operative management 
of the Company, the President and CEO is 
assisted by the Group Executive Team, which 
consists of the executives leading the business 
areas and global functions, the Business Area 
Boards, and the Strategy Team. The President 
and CEO makes decisions on matters that 
are relevant to the Company’s daily business 
operations. The President and CEO chairs the 
Group Executive Team.
The President and CEO is also responsi-
ble for arranging the Company’s day-to-day 
administration, ensuring that the Company’s 
accounts are in compliance with the law, 
and that the Company’s financial affairs are 
reliably presented.
The President and CEO ensures that the 
Board receives adequate information about 
the Company’s business operations, oper-
ating environment and financial position 
to facilitate informed decision-making. The 
President and CEO reports to the Board on the 
Company’s business and financial perfor-
mance and supervises the execution of Board 
resolutions.
Other executives
In the Company’s operative management, 
the President and CEO is assisted by the 
Group Executive Team, the Business Area 
Boards and the Strategy Team. The duties of 
these management bodies are presented on 
the first page of this Statement in connec-
tion with the illustration of the Company’s 
governance structure. The authority of 
these management bodies is not based on 
the Limited Liability Companies Act or the 
Company’s Articles of Association, but their 
position in the Company’s management 
system.
Group Executive Team (GET) Business Area Boards Strategy Team
President and CEO (Chair) President and CEO (Chair) President and CEO (Chair)
CFO CFO CFO
EVP, General Counsel EVP, General Counsel EVP, General Counsel
Business Area EVPs Business Area EVPs EVPs of Global Functions 1)
EVPs of Global Functions 1) EVPs of Global Functions 1)
Composition of management bodies
1) EVP, Strategy; EVP, T echnology, EVP Human Resources; and EVP, Marketing, Sustainability and Communications 
Members of the Group Executive Team have primary responsibility for the business areas and global functions that they lead. Members of the 
Group Executive Team report directly to the President and CEO.
Tim Kirchen
EVP , UPM Adhesive Materials
GET member since 2024
Education Diploma in Business 
Administration (FH), 
MBA and General 
Management Program 
(Harvard Business 
School) 
Nationality U.S. and German
Born 1980
Gender male
UPM shares1) 20,433
Composition of the Group Executive Team (GET), December 31, 2025
Massimo Reynaudo
Mika Kekki
Gunnar EberhardtHarald Dialer
Tapio Korpeinen
President and CEO
GET member since 2021
Education M.Sc (Eng.)
Nationality Italian
Born 1969
Gender male
UPM shares1) 23,321
CFO, EVP , UPM Energy
GET member since 2008
Education M.Sc (T ech.), MBA 
Nationality Finnish
Born 1963
Gender male
UPM shares1) 242,540
EVP , UPM Communication Papers
GET member since 2024
Education M.Sc (Eng.) and 
Executive Master’s 
degree (Innovation 
and T echnology 
Management) 
Nationality German
Born 1977
Gender male
UPM shares1) 2,681
Juha Mäkelä
General Counsel
(until December 31, 2025)
GET member since 2008–2025
Education LLM
Nationality Finnish
Born 1962
Gender male
UPM shares1) 110,851
Riitta Savonlahti
EVP , Human Resources
GET member since 2004
Education M.Sc (Econ.)
Nationality Finnish
Born 1964
Gender female
UPM shares1) 30,691
EVP , Technology and UPM Biorefining*
GET member since 2025
Education PhD (Chem.)
Nationality German and Austrian
Born 1970
Gender male
UPM shares1) 0
*Chief T echnology Officer and EVP, UPM Next 
Generation Renewables as of January 1, 2026
EVP , UPM Specialty Papers* 
GET member since 2021
Education B.Sc (Eng.)
Nationality Finnish
Born 1969
Gender male
UPM shares1) 15,458
*UPM Specialty Materials as of January 1, 2026
UPM Annual Report 2025
100 101
UPM Annual Report 2025  
Accounts and performanceWe are UPM Governance
Remuneration ReportBoard of Directors Corporate Governance Statement Group Executive T eam 

Kari Ståhlberg
EVP , Strategy
GET member since 2013
Education M.Sc (Eng.)
Nationality Finnish
Born 1971
Gender male
UPM shares1) 84,970
Saara Tahvanainen
EVP , Marketing, Sustainability  
and Communications
GET member since 2024
Education M.Sc (Soc.)
Nationality Finnish
Born 1974
Gender female
UPM shares1) 1,000
Aki Temmes
EVP , UPM Fibres
GET member since 2023
Education M.Sc, EMBA 
Nationality Finnish
Born 1977
Gender male
UPM shares1) 8,602
Internal control, risk 
management and other 
control procedures
The purpose of the Company’s internal 
control and risk management is to ensure 
that the Company’s operations are effec-
tive, that financial and other information 
is reliable, and that the Company complies 
with the relevant regulations and operating 
principles. The Board of Directors, assisted 
by the Audit Committee, is responsible for 
monitoring and assessing the effectiveness 
of the Company’s internal control and risk 
management systems. Internal audit assists 
the Board of Directors with monitoring by 
ensuring that the Group’s control measures 
have been planned and set up effectively.
Risk management
UPM regards risk management as a system-
atic and proactive means to analyze and 
manage the opportunities and threats related 
to its business operations. It also includes 
careful planning and evaluation of future pro-
jects and business environments to mitigate 
risks and capture opportunities. The Board 
of Directors has approved the Company’s 
Risk Management Policy, which sets out the 
operating principles, as well as the roles and 
responsibilities regarding risk management, 
and defines the Company’s risk management 
objectives and risk management process.
Risk management is an integral part of 
UPM’s management system, as risk-taking is 
a normal part of business operations. While 
executing strategies, UPM and its business 
areas, functions and production units are 
exposed to several uncertainties. Each busi-
ness area, function and unit is responsible 
for identifying, measuring and managing 
risks related to its own operations and for re-
porting on risk exposures, risk management 
activities and results to its own management 
team and the Risk Management function.
The Risk Management Committee, 
chaired by the CFO, is responsible for recom-
mending risk tolerances and profiles to the 
President and CEO and the Strategy Team. 
The Strategy Team is responsible for aligning 
risk management priorities, business and 
risk management strategies, and policies.
The Board of Directors, assisted by the 
Audit Committee, monitors and assesses the 
effectiveness of the Company’s risk manage-
ment systems and oversees the assessment 
and management of risks related to the 
Company’s strategy and operations. The 
Audit Committee oversees the alignment of 
risk management activities with the Risk 
Management Policy and the use of risk 
assessments to guide internal audit and 
compliance activities.
Annual risk management cycle
The Company’s annual risk management 
process is linked to the Company’s long-term 
planning process (LTP), presented in the 
illustration below.
Annual risk management cycle
Jan
Feb
Mar
Apr
May
JunJul
Aug
Sep
Oct
Nov
Dec
Risk validation and consolidation Risk reporting
Risk management at the Audit Committee
Business plan
Business plan risk assessment
Strategic risk assessment
Strategy and risks at
the Board of Directors
Business area risk assessment
L TP outlook and figures
Function target setting 
and risk assessment
LT P  
premises
Strategic risks at 
the Audit Committee
New member of the Group Executive Team as of January 26, 2026
1) on December 31, 2025, and including shares held by the director's controlled entities if any.
Tuija Suur-Hamari
EVP , UPM Plywood
GET member since September 2025
Education M.Sc (Eng.)
Nationality Finnish
Born 1969
Gender female
UPM shares1) 0
EVP , General Counsel 
GET member since January 26, 2026
Education LLM, EMBA
Nationality Finnish
Born 1974
Gender male
Sami Pauni
UPM Annual Report 2025
102 103
UPM Annual Report 2025  
Accounts and performanceWe are UPM Governance
Remuneration ReportBoard of Directors Corporate Governance Statement Group Executive T eam 

Lines of defence in UPM’s risk management and internal control
Board of Directors and Audit Committee
External audit
Internal audit
Independent and objective view
Internal audit
Independent and objective view
3rd line of defense
UPM business processes
Internal control and risk management
Group-wide framework and guidance
Control evaluation activities by individuals not responsible for operating a control 
2nd line of defense
Business operations
Risks and controls in day-to-day operations
Provide management assurance
1st line of defense
Internal control
Internal control is embedded in UPM’s man-
agement system, and it supports the system-
atic execution of the Group strategy. Internal 
control aims to ensure that the Company’s 
operations are efficient, reliable and in com-
pliance with statutory requirements, and that 
the Company’s financial reporting is accurate, 
reliable and reflective of its operational re-
sults. The Board of Directors is responsible for 
ensuring that the Company has defined the 
operating principles of internal control and 
for monitoring and assessing the effectiveness 
of such control. The Audit Committee assists 
the Board in monitoring the internal control 
system’s effectiveness.
Internal control system
The Company has developed and implement-
ed a comprehensive internal control system 
that covers business and financial reporting 
processes. UPM’s internal control framework 
is based on the internal control framework 
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring 
Organizations of the Treadway Commission 
(COSO).
The five components of UPM’s internal con-
trol system are:
1. Control environment
2. Risk assessment
3. Control activities
4. Information and communication
5. Monitoring activities
UPM’s system of internal control can be de-
scribed by the lines of defense model, which 
is reflected in UPM’s risk management and 
control processes.
Internal control pertaining to the 
financial reporting process
UPM’s internal control framework is struc-
tured using a top-down, risk-based approach. 
The system of internal control pertaining to 
financial reporting is an integral part of UPM’s 
overall internal control framework. The ef-
fectiveness of internal control is also ensured 
for outsourced services, as they follow UPM’s 
internal control framework. The maturity lev-
el of internal controls at UPM is assessed every 
other year , and the results of the assessment 
are reported to the Audit Committee.
The five components of UPM’s internal 
control system in relation to financial report-
ing are described above.
Control environment
The Company’s values and the UPM Code of 
Conduct, as well as the Group policies and 
guidelines, form the basis and set the tone 
for the internal control framework at UPM. 
The framework consists of:
• A Group-level structure
• Group-level processes
• Group-level controls
• Business and support function controls
 
Internal control is part of the corporate 
culture, covering all levels and processes 
within the Group. The Company’s manage-
ment system enables effective monitoring of 
different parts of the Group. Internal control 
in its primary and most extensive form takes 
place at the operational level, where internal 
control is continuous and part of day-to-day 
management.
An essential part of the internal control 
environment is the control of UPM’s IT ap-
plications and IT infrastructure. A dedicated 
set of internal controls aims to ensure the 
reliability of UPM’s IT systems and the segre-
gation of duties in the IT environment.
Risk assessment
UPM’s risk assessment regarding financial 
reporting aims to identify and evaluate the 
most significant risks that affect internal 
control in financial reporting within the 
Group’s companies, business areas and pro-
cesses. Risk assessment is used to define con-
trol objectives to ensure that the fundamen-
tal demands placed on financial reporting 
are fulfilled and provide the basis for how 
risks are managed within the various control 
structures. Based on the assessment, the risk 
assessment is updated annually with the 
planned control actions and control targets.
Control activities
Internal control activities pertaining to the fi-
nancial reporting process are led centrally by 
the Finance and Control function, which oper-
ates on an annual schedule and defined roles 
and responsibilities in the control process. 
The head of each unit or function organizes 
the internal control of their unit or organi-
zation. The Finance and Control function is 
responsible for monitoring business-, func-
tion- and unit-level control processes. Estab-
lishing control measures and uniform testing 
and monitoring processes helps ensure that 
potential errors or deviations are prevented 
or detected and corrected accordingly.
Controls in joint operations managed by 
UPM are performed and tested in the same 
way as in other UPM companies. Joint oper-
ations not managed by UPM are not under 
UPM internal control processes. Annual 
management certification is requested from 
all joint operations to ensure compliant 
accounting practices and proper financial 
reporting control processes.
Regarding financial reporting, the Group 
Accounting Manual sets out the instructions 
and guidelines for the preparation of consoli-
dated financial statements. The Finance and 
Control function specifies the design of the 
control points for the business processes, 
and the internal controls are implemented 
in the financial reporting process. Periodic 
control procedures are an essential part of 
the monthly and interim reporting process, 
and they include the reconciliations and 
analytical reviews required to ensure the 
accuracy of reported data.
The results of the control risk assessment 
and testing of the process-level controls are 
analyzed and reported to the Audit Commit-
tee.
Information and communication
Internal controls pertaining to financial re-
porting are documented and filed in the in-
ternal control database. The internal control 
process is reviewed on an ongoing basis and 
includes any changes in internal controls 
due to process or organizational changes. 
Regular communication from internal con-
trol process owners ensures that controls are 
clearly defined, and that the minimum re-
quirements for the relevant internal controls 
are communicated effectively.
Monitoring activities
The Board of Directors, the Audit Committee, 
the President and CEO, the Group Executive 
Team, the Finance and Control function, and 
the different business areas are respon-
sible for monitoring and thus ensuring 
the effectiveness of internal controls. The 
effectiveness of the process for assessing 
risks and the execution of control activities 
is reviewed on an ongoing basis at various 
levels. Monitoring and reviewing include the 
review of monthly and quarterly financial 
reports and comparing them to budgets and 
targets, key performance indicators and 
other analytical procedures.
The internal audit monitors and utilizes 
the risk assessment and test results from 
management’s control work.
Internal control planning procedures and 
results are documented and made available 
for the internal audit and auditors, as well 
as management, during the annual process. 
Results are reported to the Audit Commit-
tee, business management and the control 
owners.
The business areas and global functions 
are accountable for assessing the effective-
ness of the internal controls for which they 
are responsible. 
Self-assessment is a common practice at 
UPM. Key controls are also tested regularly 
by independent parties. The internal audit 
compares its audit work against control test 
results. Auditors evaluate and test UPM’s 
internal controls as part of their audit work, 
and their recommendations and observa-
tions are considered when maintaining and 
developing the internal control system.
Internal audit
UPM’s internal audit assists the Company 
in achieving its objectives by providing a 
systematic and disciplined approach to eval-
uating and improving the risk management, 
internal control and governance processes.
The internal audit follows the Interna-
tional Standards for the Professional Practice 
of Internal Auditing issued by the Institute of 
Internal Auditors. The operating principles 
of internal auditing have been defined in 
the Internal Audit Charter approved by the 
Audit Committee, and the Board of Directors 
monitors and assesses the effectiveness of 
the internal audit with the Audit Committee. 
The Audit Committee annually approves the 
internal audit’s plan and budget, which form 
the framework for internal audit operations.
Internal audit work is independent and 
objective. Strategic focus areas and the relat-
ed risks of UPM’s businesses and functions 
are the key inputs for audit engagements. 
The internal audit contributes to identifying 
synergies and sharing best practices and 
recommends improvements to operational 
efficiency. The scope of the internal audit 
covers all businesses, functions, units and 
processes within the UPM Group.
In addition, the internal audit manages 
the Report Misconduct channel and the 
related investigation process for alleged mis-
conduct, and reports to the Audit Committee 
on submissions under this channel on a 
quarterly basis. To strengthen the speak-
up culture and harmonize the Company’s 
procedures, principles, roles and responsibil-
ities regarding the reporting and investi-
gation of misconduct and other concerns, 
the Company’s misconduct investigation 
protocol was updated in 2018.
The internal audit operates adminis-
tratively under the President and CEO and 
functionally under the Audit Committee. 
It reports on conducted audits and related 
findings and recommendations to the Audit 
Committee, President and CEO, CFO, the 
management of the audited operations, 
and the auditor . The Head of Internal Audit 
attends all Audit Committee meetings and 
has quarterly sessions with the Committee 
UPM Annual Report 2025
104 105
UPM Annual Report 2025  
Accounts and performanceWe are UPM Governance
Group Executive T eam Remuneration ReportBoard of Directors Corporate Governance Statement

members without other members of man-
agement present.
Related party transactions
The Company has identified its related 
parties, and it is regularly engaged in trans-
actions with some of these parties. These 
transactions are related to the Company’s 
normal business operations and must be in 
line with the purpose of the Company and 
executed on market or market-equivalent 
terms and practices generally observed and 
accepted within the industry in question (for 
example, the so-called Mankala companies 
in the energy industry).
The Company’s Board of Directors has 
defined and approved principles for moni-
toring and assessing related party transac-
tions. These principles are documented in 
the Company’s Approval Policy. The Audit 
Committee monitors and assesses how 
agreements and other legal acts between 
the Company and its related parties meet 
the requirements of the ordinary course 
of business and market terms. The Audit 
Committee also reviews any questions of 
potential conflicts of interest in contemplat-
ed transactions with the Company’s related 
parties and makes recommendations to the 
Board for appropriate actions regarding 
these contemplated transactions. If the 
contemplated transaction deviates from the 
Company’s normal business operations or 
would not be executed on market or mar-
ket-equivalent terms, the transaction must 
either be cancelled or submitted to the Board 
of Directors for approval.
Related party transactions are moni-
tored in cooperation with the Finance and 
Control, and Legal and Compliance functions 
as part of the Company’s normal reporting 
and control procedures. Information about 
material transactions concluded between the 
Company and its related parties is disclosed 
annually in the notes to the Company’s 
consolidated financial statements. When 
required under the applicable laws and 
regulations, material transactions conducted 
with related parties are also published via a 
stock exchange release.
Insider administration
UPM follows the Guidelines for Insiders 
of Listed Companies issued by Nasdaq 
Helsinki Ltd. The UPM Insider Policy has 
been approved by the Board of Directors 
and, with related rules and instructions, it 
complements applicable insider regulations 
and sets out guidelines for the Company’s 
insider administration and persons involved 
in insider projects.
Organization of insider administration
The Company’s Chief Compliance Officer 
is in charge of the overall organization 
of the Company’s insider administration. 
UPM’s Insider Administration comprises 
the General Counsel, the Chief Compliance 
Officer , the Director responsible for Group 
Legal and Legal Operations, and the Insider 
Administrator . UPM’s Insider Administration 
is responsible for monitoring compliance 
with the Market Abuse Regulation (MAR), 
UPM Insider Policy, and other applicable 
insider regulations and guidelines. It is also 
responsible for the ongoing supervision, 
management and administration of insider 
and other MAR-related matters, including 
the maintenance of insider lists, managers’ 
transactions, notifications to managers, the 
Finnish Financial Supervisory Authority and 
other relevant parties, as well as for provid-
ing training and advice.
List of managers and closely associated 
persons
As required by the MAR, UPM’s Insider 
Administration maintains a list of persons 
discharging managerial responsibilities 
(MAR Managers) and their closely associated 
persons. Each MAR Manager and closely 
associated person is informed in writing 
of their position as such and the related 
obligations.
At UPM, MAR Managers include the mem-
bers of the Board of Directors, the President 
and CEO, the Chief Financial Officer , and the 
Executive Vice Presidents of the business 
areas. Based on UPM’s governance structure, 
the abovementioned executives are deemed 
to comprise the senior executives of the 
Company who have regular access to inside 
information related to UPM, as well as the 
power to make managerial decisions affect-
ing the future developments and business 
prospects of the Company.
List of financial information recipients
The Company also maintains a list of 
Company employees and other persons 
who have regular access to the Company’s 
unpublished consolidated financial informa-
tion based on their position, duties or access 
rights. Persons entered on this list are called 
“financial information recipients.” Each 
financial information recipient is informed 
in writing of their position as such and the 
related obligations.
Trading restriction
The Company’s MAR Managers and financial 
information recipients are prohibited from 
trading (on their own account or on account 
of a third party), directly or indirectly, in the 
financial instruments linked to UPM during a 
closed period of 30 calendar days prior to the 
announcement and on the date of the actual 
announcement (30 + 1) of UPM’s annual, 
half-year and quarterly financial reports.
Insider lists
UPM does not maintain a list of permanent 
insiders. Persons receiving inside infor-
mation are included in project-specific 
insider lists. UPM’s Insider Administration 
is responsible for establishing, maintaining 
and updating insider lists when a decision 
to delay disclosure or to establish an insider 
project is taken. Each person included on 
an insider list is notified in writing of their 
inclusion on the list, along with the obliga-
tions and sanctions related to them. Persons 
possessing inside information are not 
allowed to trade in the financial instruments 
linked to the Company. Persons entered on a 
project-specific insider list are also notified 
in writing of the termination of the insider 
project and related obligations.
Whistleblowing
Any potential violations against UPM’s 
Insider Policy or suspected infringements 
of financial market regulations such as the 
MAR and the Securities Markets Act can be 
reported using UPM’s Report Misconduct 
channel. This channel is available on the 
corporate website and in UPM’s intranet.
Auditor and sustainability 
reporting assurer
In 2025, Ernst & Young Oy, a firm of au-
thorized public accountants, acted as the 
Company’s auditor (elected at AGM 2024) 
and was re-elected as the Company’s auditor 
for the financial period 2026 (elected at AGM 
2025), with Authorized Public Accountant 
(KHT) Heikki Ilkka as the lead audit partner 
for the financial period 2025.
Ernst & Young Oy, a firm of authorized 
sustainability audit, was also elected as the 
Company’s sustainability reporting assurer 
for the financial period 2025, with Author-
ized Sustainability Auditor (KRT) Heikki 
Ilkka as the principally responsible sustain-
ability reporting assurer for the financial 
period 2025. 
Fees paid for the statutory sustainability 
reporting assurance are shown in the table 
on right.
€ million 2025 2024
Audit fee 4.7 4.5
Audit-related services
Sustainability statement 
assurance 0.4 0.3
Other audit related 
services 0.1 0.3
T ax services 0.6 0.6
Other services 0.4 0.1
Tota l 6.2 5.8
Auditor’s and sustainability reporting 
assurer's fees
In 2025, auditor’s fees include €0.5 mil-
lion (0.6) related to audit-related services, 
€0.6 million (0.4) related to tax services and 
€0.4 million (0.0) related to other services 
paid to Ernst & Young Oy.  
  Governance on our website
Auditor’s fees
According to the resolution of the AGM, the 
auditors’ fees for the financial period are 
paid against invoices approved by the Board 
of Directors’ Audit Committee. The amounts 
paid to the auditor , as approved by the Audit 
Committee, are shown in the table below. 
UPM Annual Report 2025
106 107
UPM Annual Report 2025  
Accounts and performanceWe are UPM Governance
Group Executive T eam Remuneration ReportBoard of Directors Corporate Governance Statement

UPM Annual Report 2025
108 109
UPM Annual Report 2025  
Accounts and performanceWe are UPM Governance
Board of Directors Corporate Governance Statement
 Group Executive T eam Remuneration Report
Remuneration Report 2025
1. Foreword from UPM’s Remuneration 
Committee Chair
Dear Shareholders,
I’m pleased to present to you UPM’s Re-
muneration Report 2025. In this report we 
present the remuneration for UPM’s Board of 
Directors and the President and CEO for 2025 
and how the remuneration is aligned with 
our Remuneration Policy and UPM strategy.
We highly value the perspectives of our 
shareholders and remain committed to 
constructive dialogue. Feedback is actively 
considered, and where appropriate and con-
sistent with our governance principles, regu-
latory requirements and strategic priorities, 
it is reflected in our remuneration practices. 
Furthermore, we conduct regular market 
benchmarking to ensure that our remunera-
tion framework remains competitive across 
international markets, equitable, and aligned 
with the company’s strategic objectives, 
thereby supporting company’s long-term fi-
nancial success and the sustainable creation 
of shareholder value.
UPM’s performance in 2025
The year 2025 started in a positive senti-
ment of market recovery across most UPM 
businesses. However , uncertainty in global 
trade soon ramped up significantly with 
the introduction of increased and changing 
tariffs between the U.S. and nearly all other 
regions in the world. The unusual uncer-
tainty impacted decision-making by the 
customers and muted consumer sentiment 
as the year progressed. Demand for UPM’s 
products remained slow and most market 
prices decreased. The uncertainty impacted 
UPM Fibres and UPM Communication Papers 
the most, while the other businesses were 
more resilient, even improving their perfor-
mances in the second half of the year from 
the previous year .
UPM continued to implement competi-
tiveness and efficiency measures to protect 
profitability, prepare for market recovery, 
and capture growth in the future. In Fibres 
North, production was curtailed at the 
Finnish pulp mills due to high wood cost and 
low pulp prices. UPM Communication Papers 
implemented further capacity closures. UPM 
Adhesive Materials relocated production 
to lower-cost units, while at the same time, 
making growth investments in the U.S. and 
Southeast Asia.
The Fibres South platform showed its 
competitiveness, achieving strong profitabili-
ty even during the low pulp prices. Our mile-
stone investment, the UPM Paso de los Toros 
pulp mill, performed well. The mill had its 
first full year of nominal capacity available, 
and the efficient railway to Montevideo fully 
operational.
Our biorefinery in Leuna, Germany, be-
gan customer deliveries of industrial sugars 
during the fourth quarter , and is expected 
to bring further products to the market in 
the first half of 2026. The biorefinery is ex-
pected to reach full production and positive 
EBIT during 2027.
In 2025, UPM started two significant 
portfolio projects. In September , we began a 
strategic review of the plywood business to 
identify ways to maximize its long-term po-
tential and shareholder value. This review is 
expected to be completed by the end of 2026. 
In December , we signed a letter of intent to 
form a graphic paper Joint Venture, which 
would include all the UPM Communication 
Papers business. The aim is to position the 
communication paper business for contin-
ued value creation for its customers in a way 
that benefits UPM shareholders.
Application of the Remuneration Policy 
in 2025
The remuneration of the Directors and the 
President and CEO for the 2025 financial 
year was carried out in accordance with the 
Remuneration Policy. No temporary devia-
tions from the Policy were made, and no CEO 
or Director remuneration was reclaimed or 
restated during 2025.
In 2025, the remuneration paid to and 
confirmed for the CEO was in line with the 
company’s Remuneration Policy, pay-for-per-
formance approach, based on the company’s 
performance, achievements, and progres-
sion toward ambitious strategic targets and 
priorities.
Looking ahead to 2026
 In addition to the strategic portfolio projects 
mentioned, UPM will focus on further im-
proving competitiveness, increasing capital 
efficiency, and strengthening its balance 
sheet. Following the recent investments, the 
company has a strong asset base to capture 
focused market growth opportunities in a 
capital-efficient way.
The Board is dedicated to ensuring that 
the remuneration framework drives and 
rewards the achievement of strategic prior-
ities, promoting UPM’s long-term financial 
success, competitiveness, and favorable de-
velopment of shareholder value. The align-
ment of the interests of our shareholders 
and the remuneration is of high importance, 
therefore we aim to review the sharehold-
ing recommendation to ensure it remains 
aligned with the prevailing market practice.
Finally, I wish to express our appreciation 
to all shareholders for their ongoing trust 
and support. 
Martin à Porta
Remuneration Committee Chair
Position/ Company measure 20211) 20221) 20231) 20241) 20251)
Chair of the Board (€) 195,000 200,000 218,000 231,000 240,000
Deputy Chair of the Board (€) 140,000 140,000 145,000 145,000 150,000
Other member of the Board (€) 115,000 115,000 120,000 120,000 120,000
Chair of the Audit Committee 2)  (€) 35,000 35,000 35,000 45,000 50,000
Member of the Audit Committee 2)  (€) 15,000 15,000 15,000 25,000 30,000
Chair of the Nomination and Governance Committee 2)  (€) 20,000 20,000 20,000 20,000 20,000
Chair of the Remuneration Committee 2)  (€) 20,000 2 7,50 0 2 7,50 0 2 7,50 0 2 7,50 0
Member of the Remuneration or the Nomination and Governance 
Committee 2)  (€) 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000
CEO, Jussi Pesonen (until Dec 31, 2023) (€1,000) 3,734 5,486 5,561
CEO, Massimo Reynaudo (from Jan 1, 2024 onwards) (€1,000) 1,418 1,387
UPM Average Employee 3)  (€) 52,235 52,940 63,266 60,128 62,119
Total Shareholder Return (%) 4) +75 +29 +28 -9 -17
Comparable ROE, % 11.7 14.0 6.2 8.3 6.5
Comparable EBIT (€m) 1,471 2,096 1,013 1,224 921
Remuneration and company performance over the last five financial years
1)  For Board and Committee members, the reporting period is from the AGM to the following year’s AGM, but for the CEO, UPM Average Employee, and company performance it is a 
financial year. 
2) The annual Committee fee is paid in addition to the annual base fee of the Chair, Deputy Chair, or other member of the Board of Directors.
3)  UPM Average Employee remuneration is calculated by dividing the disclosed financial statement value of employee costs by the number of personnel at the end of the financial year in 
question (excluding the CEO and the remuneration paid to the CEO during the financial year). UPM Average Employee remuneration includes the following elements of employee costs: 
salaries, fees, and share-based payments.
4) Three-calendar-year absolute total shareholder cumulative return with dividends reinvested.
2. Introduction
This Remuneration Report 2025 (the Report) 
presents the remuneration of the members 
of the Board of Directors (the Directors) 
and the President and CEO (the CEO) of 
UPM-Kymmene Corporation (the company or 
UPM) for the 2025 financial year . 
The Report was prepared in accordance 
with the requirements set forth in the 
Finnish Limited Liability Companies Act, the 
Finnish Securities Markets Act, Decree of the 
Ministry of Finance on the remuneration 
policy and remuneration report of a share 
issuer , and the Finnish Corporate Govern-
ance Code 2025.
The Report was prepared by the Board 
of Directors’ Remuneration Committee and 
Nomination and Governance Committee 
and approved by the Board of Directors (the 
Board) for presentation and adoption at the 
2026 Annual General Meeting (the AGM). 
The resolution of the general meeting on the 
Report is advisory. 
The 2025 AGM adopted the Remuneration 
Report for the 2024 financial year without 
a full vote count, as this is not carried out at 
physical general meetings unless specifically 
requested at the meeting.
The company’s statutory auditor has 
verified that the information required by the 
above-mentioned Decree of the Ministry of 
Finance has been provided in the Report.
According to the Finnish Limited Liability 
Companies Act, the remuneration policy 
shall be presented to the general meeting 
every four years, unless a revised remunera-
tion policy is presented to the general meet-
ing before then. UPM’s Remuneration Policy 
(the Policy) was presented to the AGM in 
2020 and 2024. The AGM adopted the Policy 
on both occasions without a full vote count. 
The resolution of the AGM is advisory. 
The Board’s Remuneration Committee 
and the Nomination and Governance Com-
mittee review the appropriateness of the 
Policy annually.
3. Remuneration of the Board of Directors
The Board remuneration as resolved by the AGM in 2025:
Annual base fee (€) 2025 Payment mechanism
Chair of the Board 240,000 • Approximately 40% in company shares and the rest in cash to cover taxes. The 
company paid the costs and transfer tax related to the purchase of the company shares
• Shares may not be transferred within two years of the purchase date or until the 
Director’s term on the Board ends, whichever comes first.
Deputy Chair of the Board 150,000
Board member 120,000
Annual committee fee (€) Chair Member Payment mechanism
Audit Committee 50,000 30,000
CashRemuneration Committee 2 7,50 0 10,000
Nomination and Governance Committee 20,000 10,000
Director
Annual base fee (EUR) of which
Annual  
committee fee (€)
Total  
remuneration  
(€)
Number of shares  
purchased as part of  
annual base fee 1)40% in shares (€) 60% in cash (€)
Henrik Ehrnrooth
240,000
20,000 260,000 4,170
96,000 144,000
Kim Wahl
150,000
10,000 160,000 2,606
60,000 90,000
Pia Aaltonen-Forsell
120,000
50,000 170,000 2,085
48,000 72,000
Jari Gustafsson
120,000
30,000 150,000 2,085
48,000 72,000
Piia-Noora Kauppi
120,000
10,000 130,000 2,085
48,000 72,000
Melanie Maas-Brunner
120,000
10,000 130,000 2,085
48,000 72,000
Topi Manner
120,000
10,000 130,000 2,085
48,000 72,000
Marjan Oudeman
120,000
30,000 150,000 2,085
48,000 72,000
Martin à Porta
120,000
2 7,50 0 147,50 0 2,085
48,000 72,000
Total
1,230,000
197,5 0 0 1,427 ,500 21,371
492,000 738,000
1)  Transaction date April 25, 2025.
The 2025 AGM resolved the remuneration 
paid to the members of the Board. Shares 
purchased as part of the Board remuner-
ation for Directors in 2025 may not be 
transferred for two years from the purchase 
date (April 25, 2025) or until the Director’s 
term ends, whichever comes first. Directors 
are encouraged to hold company shares long 
term, and most have substantial holdings, 
indicating close alignment of the Directors’ 
interests with those of shareholders.
Actual travel and accommodation ex-
penses related to Board and Committee work 
were compensated against invoice. Directors 
did not receive meeting fees or other finan-
cial benefits for their board or committee 
membership other than those stated in this 
Report.
4. Remuneration of the CEO
The aim of the CEO’s remuneration is to 
drive and reward the achievement of the 
company’s strategic priorities and thereby 
promote the company’s long-term financial 
success, competitiveness and favorable 
development of shareholder value.
The remuneration of the CEO consists of 
fixed components, such as base salary and 
fringe benefits, as well as variable compo-
nents, such as short- and long-term incen-
tives, pension, and other financial benefits. 
The variable components of the CEO’s 
remuneration form a significant portion of 
the theoretical maximum total remuneration 
opportunity. The payout depends on the 
achievement of the predetermined perfor-
mance measures that support the execution 
of the company’s strategic priorities and pro-
mote the company’s long-term value creation 
and financial growth.
The share ownership recommendation 
further strengthens the alignment of the 
company, the CEO, and the company’s share-
holders’ interests. 
CEO
(€ 1,000)
Remuneration paid during  
the 2025 financial year 
Remuneration confirmed from  
STI 2025 and PSP 2023-2025
(paid during the 2026 financial year)
Base salary 927
Short-term incentive 261
(STI 2024 1))
21
(STI 2025 2) )
Long-term incentive 169
(PSP 2022–2024 3) )
157
(PSP 2023–2025 4) )
Other financial benefits 5) 30
Total 1,387
Proportional share of fixed and  
variable remuneration 6) 69% / 31% 
Pension benefit 7) 190
1) The payout from the STI 2024 Plan is based on performance against predetermined measures in the 2024 financial year. The STI 2024 payout was paid in February 2025. 
2)   The payout from the STI 2025 plan is based on the performance against predetermined measures in the 2025 financial year. Approved by the Board of Directors on February 4, 2026. 
The STI 2025 payout was paid in February 2026.
3)   Calculated using the volume weighted average share price of €28.11 on the share delivery date of February 28, 2025. The PSP 2022-2024 allocation was related to the CEO's previous 
position within the company as Executive Vice President, UPM Communication Papers.
4)   Calculated using the volume weighted average share price of €27.02 on the share delivery date of February 27, 2026. The PSP 2023-2025 allocation was related to the CEO's previous 
position within the company as Executive Vice President, UPM Communication Papers. Approved by the Board of Directors on February 17, 2026.
5)   Other financial benefits include fringe benefits and the taxable values of a company car, bicycle, phone, accommodation benefit, tax compliance services, and health insurance. In 
addition to these fringe benefits, the CEO had the following additional insurances in place during the 2025 financial year: life, disability, travel, and accident. The company committed 
also to paying the CEO a full base salary for one year in case of severe illness and related absence from work. This commitment was arranged through insurance. The CEO was also 
eligible to participate in other employee benefit arrangements offered to company employees during the financial year.
6) The variable remuneration paid in 2025 relates partly to the CEO’s previous position within the company before the appointment as the CEO.
7)  The CEO has a voluntary pension benefit to supplement the Finnish statutory pension scheme (TyEL). This voluntary pension benefit is arranged through a defined contribution plan. 
The contribution is 20% of the base salary. The retirement age for the CEO is 65.
CEO’s total remuneration:
The CEO’s short-term 
incentive in 2025
The performance measures, related targets, 
and weights for the CEO’s short-term incen-
tive are set annually by the Board for a one-
year performance period. These measures 
can vary from year to year to align with the 
company’s strategic priorities and usually 
include a balance of financial, strategic, 
operational, sustainability, safety, individual 
or other types of measures, provided that in 
any given year the majority of the measures 
will be based on financial criteria.
For the Short-term Incentive Plan 2024 
(STI 2024) the Board set two financial meas-
ures for the CEO, i.e. EBITDA and operative 
cash flow. The weight of EBITDA measure ac-
counted for 60% of the total, and the weight 
of operative cash flow measure accounted 
for 20%. In addition, the Board set one strate-
gic measure for the CEO, the Leuna biochem-
icals refinery project, which accounted for 
20% of the total. The set measures and target 
setting remained constant and unchanged 
throughout the 2024 financial year . The 
Board evaluated performance against the 
set measures and targets for the short-term 
incentive plan and did not exercise its right 
for discretion regarding the payout. The 
short-term incentive payout was according 
to the formulaic outcome.
The total achievement for the whole 
short-term incentive was 18.3% of the de-
fined maximum annual short-term incentive 
payout opportunity and overall cap of 150% 
UPM Annual Report 2025
110 111
UPM Annual Report 2025  
Accounts and performanceWe are UPM Governance
Board of Directors Corporate Governance Statement
 Group Executive T eam Remuneration Report
of the annual base salary. The STI 2024 pay-
out, based on 2024 performance, was paid in 
February 2025.
For the Short-term Incentive Plan 2025 
(STI 2025) the Board set two financial meas-
ures for the CEO, i.e. EBITDA and operative 
cash flow. The weight of EBITDA measure 
accounted for 70% of the total, and the weight 
of operative cash flow measure accounted for 
30%. The set measures and target setting re-
mained constant and unchanged throughout 
the 2025 financial year . The Board evaluated 
performance against the set measures and 
targets for the short-term incentive plan and 
did not exercise its right for discretion regard-
ing the payout. The short-term incentive pay-
out was according to the formulaic outcome.
The total achievement for the whole 
short-term incentive was 1.5% of the defined 
maximum annual short-term incentive pay-
out opportunity and overall cap of 150% of 
the annual base salary. The STI 2025 payout, 
based on 2025 performance, was paid in 
February 2026.
The CEO’s long-term 
incentive in 2025
The CEO’s long-term incentive is based on the 
company’s Performance Share Plan (PSP), 
consisting of individual plans that commence 
annually and are approved by the Board. 
0 20 40 60 80 100
Strategic Project (Leuna Biochemicals reﬁnery project)1)
Operative Cash Flow (€m)
EBITDA (€m)
%
To t a l
achievement
Weight 60 20 20
STI 2024 Achievement
Achievement
14 31
23
4
17
Figures presented in this report have been rounded and, therefore, the sum of individual figures might deviate from the presented total figure. 
¹)  Strategic Project includes measures for safety, budget, timeline and sales
0
5
0 20 40 60 80 100
Operative Cash Flow (€m)
EBITDA (€m)
%
To t a l
achievement
Weight 70 30
STI 2025 Achievement
Achievement
2
PSP 2023-2025 Achievement
%
Gender pay equity
Net positive impact on biodiversity
Reduction of fossil CO2 emissions
TSR
0 20 40 60 80 100
To ta l
 achievement 0 10 5 5
Weight 80 5 510
Achievement
0
100
100
100
Performance share plan PSP 2022–2024 PSP 2023–2025 PSP 2024–2026 PSP 2025–2027
Max. no. of shares allocated to the CEO 30,0001) 29,0001) 72,952 75,530
Performance measure (weight) TSR 2)  (100%)
ESG 3)  (20%)
TSR 2)  (80%) 
ESG 4)  (20%)
TSR 2)  (80%) 
ESG 4)  (20%)
TSR 2)  (80%)
ESG 4)  (20%)
Actual achievement (0–100) 20.00% 20.00% N /A N /A
No. of shares earned 6,000 5,800 N /A N /A
Share delivery (year) 2025 2026 2027 2028
1)   The maximum number of shares allocated in relation to the CEO’s previous position within the company as Executive Vice President, UPM Communication Papers.
2) T otal shareholder return.
3)  For the PSP 2022–2024 Plan, the Board set absolute total shareholder return (TSR) as a performance measure, and the weight of this measure accounted for 80% of all measures.  
The TSR performance measure takes into account share price appreciation and paid dividends during the three-year performance period. The Board also set three sustainability-relat-
ed performance measures and the total weight of these measures accounted for 20% of all measures. Two of the sustainability performance measures are environmental in essence: 
Reduction of fossil CO2 emissions from UPM’s own combustion and purchased electricity by 65% by 2030 from the 2015 level (10% weight) and the achievement of a net positive impact 
on biodiversity in the company’s own forests in Finland (5% weight). The third sustainability performance measure is a social measure: Achievement of gender pay equity (5% weight).  
The sustainability performance measures in the PSP 2022–2024 Plan are based on the company’s sustainability targets for 2030.
4)  For the PSP 2023–2025, PSP 2024–2026 and PSP 2025-2027 Plans, the Board set absolute total shareholder return (TSR) as a performance measure and the weight of this measure 
accounted for 80% of all measures. The TSR performance measure takes into account share price appreciation and paid dividends during the three-year performance period. The 
Board also set three sustainability-related performance measures and the total weight of these measures accounted for 20% of all measures. Two of the sustainability performance mea-
sures are environmental in essence: Reduction of fossil CO2 emissions from UPM’s on-site combustion and purchased energy by 65% by 2030 from the 2015 level (10% weight) and the 
achievement of a net positive impact on biodiversity in the company’s own forests in Finland (5% weight). The third sustainability performance measure is a social measure: Achievement 
of gender pay equity (5% weight). The sustainability performance measures in PSP 2023–2025,  PSP 2024–2026  and PSP 2025-2027 Plans are based on the company’s sustainability 
targets for 2030.
These plans have a minimum performance 
period of three years. The Board sets perfor-
mance measures, related targets, and weights 
for each commencing plan annually. These 
measures, targets, and weights can vary from 
plan to plan to promote the company’s long-
term value creation and financial growth 
without encouraging excessive risk taking. 
These measures may include, but are not 
limited to, financial, share price-related, and 
sustainability (ESG) measures.
The maximum and actual values of the 
share rewards indicated in the table on the 
previous page represent the gross number of 
shares from which the applicable taxes will 
be deducted before the shares are delivered 
to the CEO.
Performance measures for the long-term 
incentive plan 2022–2024
For the PSP 2022–2024, the Board set ab-
solute total shareholder return (TSR) and 
selected sustainability measures as the plan’s 
performance measures. The weight of TSR 
measure accounted for 80% of the total, 
while the weight of sustainability measures 
accounted for the remaining 20%.
Total shareholder return takes into 
account share price appreciation and paid 
dividends.
The sustainability measures included the 
reduction of fossil CO2 emissions from UPM’s 
own combustion and purchased electricity 
(10% weight), the achievement of a net posi-
tive impact on biodiversity in the company’s 
own forests in Finland (5% weight), and 
the achievement of gender pay equity (5% 
weight).
The set measures and target setting re-
mained constant and unchanged throughout 
the three-year earning period.
The Board evaluated performance against 
the set measures and targets for the long-
term incentive plan and did not exercise its 
right for discretion regarding the payout. 
The long-term incentive payout was accord-
ing to the formulaic outcome.
The total achievement was 20.00% of the 
predefined maximum target setting. Shares 
earned from the PSP 2022–2024 were deliv-
ered to the CEO in February 2025.
Performance measures for the long-term 
incentive plan 2023–2025
For the PSP 2023-2025, the Board set absolute 
total shareholder return (TSR) and selected 
sustainability measures as the plan’s perfor-
mance measures. The weight of TSR measure 
accounted for 80% of the total, while the 
weight of sustainability measures accounted 
for the remaining 20%.
Total shareholder return takes into 
account share price appreciation and paid 
dividends.
The sustainability measures included the 
reduction of fossil CO2 emissions from UPM’s 
on-site combustion and purchased energy 
(10% weight), the achievement of a net posi-
tive impact on biodiversity in the company’s 
own forests in Finland (5% weight), and 
the achievement of gender pay equity (5% 
weight).
The set measures and target setting re-
mained constant and unchanged throughout 
the three-year earning period.
The Board evaluated performance against 
the set measures and targets for the long-
term incentive and did not exercise its right 
for discretion regarding the payout. The 
long-term incentive payout was according to 
the formulaic outcome. 
The total achievement was 20.00% of the 
predefined maximum target setting. Shares 
earned from the PSP 2023–2025 were deliv-
ered to the CEO in February 2026.
Gender pay equity
Net positive impact on biodiversity
Reduction of fossil CO2 emissions
TSR
PSP 2022-2024 Achievement
0 20 40 60 80 100
To ta l
 achievement 0 10 5 5
Weight 80 5 510
Achievement
0
100
100
100
%
Figures presented in this report have been rounded and, therefore, the sum of individual figures might deviate from the presented total figure. 
Figures presented in this report have been rounded and, therefore, the sum of individual figures might deviate from the presented total figure. 
Figures presented in this report have been rounded and, therefore, the sum of individual figures might deviate from the presented total figure. 
UPM Annual Report 2025
112 113
UPM Annual Report 2025  
Accounts and performanceWe are UPM Governance
Board of Directors Corporate Governance Statement
 Group Executive T eam Remuneration Report
UPM Annual Report 2025
114 115
UPM Annual Report 2025  UPM Annual Report 2025114
Report of the Board of Directors   116
 Sustainability Statement   133
Financial Statements   258
Auditor's Report   343
Sustainability Assurance Reports   350
Other financial information   355
More on sustainability   360
Contact us   362
Accounts and 
performance
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors 
Market environment in 2025 118
Results 119
Outlook for 2026 123
Operations 124
Sustainability Statement 2025 133
Research and development 250
Information on shares 254
UPM introduction and business model
We are a material solutions company and provide renewable alternatives 
to fossil-based materials used in everyday life. Our strong business 
portfolio in renewable fibres, advanced materials and decarbonization 
solutions provides several attractive growth opportunities. 
We will further improve competitiveness, increase capital efficiency, 
and strengthen our balance sheet. We will capture focused growth 
opportunities. Following recent investments, UPM has a strong asset base 
to capture market growth opportunities in a capital-efficient way. We aim 
to develop a portfolio of world-class businesses.
Our innovative products enable customers and consumers to make 
more sustainable choices. We are committed to creating value for our 
customers, using sustainable, renewable feedstocks, reducing our own 
environmental footprint and enhancing our positive societal impact. Our 
leading position in sustainability is based on world-leading standards, 
commitment to respected global initiatives and third-party verification. 
 
UPM builds on corporate synergies, adding value to the businesses 
and stakeholders with:
• Competitive and sustainable wood sourcing, forestry and plantation 
operations
• Efficient global functions
• Technology development and intellectual property rights
• Global business platform
• Disciplined and effective capital allocation
• Compliance, UPM Code of Conduct and strong UPM brand
Clear roles and responsibilities
Group Businesses Outcomes
Portfolio strategy
Capital allocation
Business targets
Code of Conduct
Sustainability targets
Business area strategies
Commercial excellence
Operational excellence
Cost competitiveness
Preparation and 
implementation of projects
Innovation
World-class businesses
Competitive advantage
Growth                                                      
Value creation
Stakeholder and societal value
License to operate
Our businesses in various parts of the bio and forest industry value chain 
operate as separate market-driven entities, both in terms of customers 
and suppliers. This enables agility in a fast-changing business 
environment, higher efficiency, differentiated commercial strategies, 
optimal sourcing, the right incentives, wider product development 
opportunities and effective capital allocation.
The UPM Code of Conduct underlines our commitment to business 
integrity and responsible business operations and manifests the 
company’s guiding principles. We promote responsible practices 
throughout the value chain and are active in finding sustainable solutions, 
in cooperation with our customers, suppliers and partners.
UPM FINANCIAL REPORT 2025 117
Report of the 
Board of Directors
UPM Annual Report 2025
116 117
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors 

Market environment in 2025
The global economy is estimated to have grown by a little over 3% in 
2025. World trade in goods increased by 2.5% according to WTO. Global 
inflation continued its downward trajectory from the post-pandemic 
highs, settling at just over 4%.
The U.S. announced a new tariff regime in April 2025, imposing broad, 
double-digit tariffs on imports, with escalations toward China, the EU, and 
India. Sharp increases caused a supply shock in the U.S. and demand 
shocks elsewhere, slowing trade growth and disrupting supply chains. 
Uncertainty curbed investment, dampened consumption, and delayed 
business decisions.
Russia-Ukraine war continued into its fourth year with no durable 
resolution, sustaining energy and food price pressures and European 
energy security concerns. Conflicts in the Middle East caused regional 
instability, oil price volatility and concerns over shipping routes. Amid 
these headwinds, AI-related capital expenditure surged, contributing 
significantly to growth and preventing the worst predictions from coming 
true.
The EU economy showed resilience, achieving real GDP growth of 1.4% 
thanks to good early-year performance, front-loaded exports and 
investment. Spain and Poland outpaced the average growth, offsetting 
slower growth in Germany and Italy. Inflation eased to 2.5%, with 
unemployment stable at 6%.
The U.S. economy weathered severe trade and domestic policy 
tensions growing by over 2%, fuelled by solid consumer spending, robust 
investment, exports and government outlays. Inflation held steady at a 
moderate 2.7% year-end.
The Asia-Pacific (APAC) showed notable resilience as the world's 
fastest-growing area, contributing around 60% of global growth despite 
headwinds uncertainty over tariffs and subdued demand in subregions. 
Growth in broader APAC held steady at around 4.5%.
The COP30 conference held in November 2025 in Belém, Brazil, 
marked the tenth anniversary of the Paris Agreement. Amid geopolitical 
tensions, U.S. tariffs and surging energy demand, the focus shifted from 
ambition toward implementation, bridging the gap between pledges and 
action, as well as balancing energy security, affordability, and 
sustainability. The Belém Package focused on adaptation, finance 
delivery, multilateral cooperation, and human-centered outcomes across 
29 consensus decisions.
The outlook for electricity growth is strong, driven by AI data centers, 
electrification, cooling, and industrialization. In 2025, clean energy 
investment outpaced fossils, with solar and wind leading growth. The IEA's 
World Energy Outlook stressed this as a defining shift, with renewables 
expanding fast enough to meet new demand in some periods, but overall 
emissions still increasing.
The year started in a positive sentiment of market recovery in most of 
UPM businesses. As uncertainty in the global trade ramped up with the 
introduction of tariffs, the demand for our products slowed and most 
market prices decreased, most notably pulp and paper prices. Our pulp, 
label material and biofuel deliveries increased year-on-year, but deliveries 
of paper, plywood, timber and electricity fell. The direct impact of tariffs 
was relatively minor in 2025 and impacted mainly UPM Communication 
Papers.
The U.S. dollar weakened rapidly during Q2 2025 and stayed broadly 
stable on a lower level vs. the euro during H2 2025. This had a negative 
impact on UPM’s businesses, especially UPM Fibres and UPM 
Communication Papers.
Global market shipments of BHKP pulp were up 6% year-over-year 
and NBSK down slightly in the first 11 months compared with the previous 
year. In the full year 2025, the average European pulp market price in 
euros was 2.5% lower for NBSK and 14% lower for BHKP compared to 
2024. In China, the average pulp market price in US dollars was 7% lower 
for NBSK and 15% lower for BHKP year-over-year.
European demand for graphic papers decreased by 8% in 2025 
compared with 2024. Market prices decreased for all grades. In October, 
paper production at the UPM Kaukas mill in Finland ended permanently, 
and in December, it ended at the UPM Ettringen mill in Germany. These 
changes reduced UPM’s graphic paper production capacity by 13%. 
The global markets for self-adhesive label materials were resilient in 
Europe, market shipments growing by 2% year-over-year, but growth 
slowed down in North America to 1% and were challenging in the Asia-
Pacific region. UPM’s deliveries outpaced the market growth. Label, 
release liner and packaging paper markets were affected by tariff 
uncertainties, resulting in lower prices and reduced deliveries. Fine paper 
markets were slow but improved towards the end of the year.
Demand for spruce plywood in Europe was stable but at a relatively 
low level as the construction markets remained slow. Demand for birch 
plywood in panel trading and industrial end uses was good and demand 
for LNG end-use birch plywood very good.
In 2025, European electricity markets saw prices slightly up from 2024, 
with record solar generation. In the Nordics, high hydrological reserves 
pushed prices historically low in the first half of the year, but prices 
recovered in the latter part. The average Finnish area spot price was 
€40.5/MWh, 11% lower than in 2024.
Markets for advanced renewable biofuels improved. The price 
development of feedstock (CTO) and end products relative to each other 
was favorable. Interest in UPM’s bio-based renewable functional fillers and 
glycols remained strong at the same time as the targeted markets 
continued their steady growth.
UPM FINANCIAL REPORT 2025 118
Key figures
2025 2024 2023
Sales, € million  9,656  10,339  10,460 
Comparable EBITDA, € million  1,311  1,734  1,573 
% of sales  13.6 16.8  15.0 
Operating profit, € million  749  604  608 
Comparable EBIT, € million  921  1,224  1,013 
% of sales  9.5 11.8  9.7 
Profit before tax, € million  690  500  464 
Comparable profit before tax, € million  863  1,123  934 
Profit for the period, € million  491  463  394 
Comparable profit for the period, € million  714  953  755 
Earnings per share (EPS), €  0.91  0.82  0.73 
Comparable EPS, €  1.33  1.74  1.40 
Return on equity (ROE), %  4.5  4.0  3.2 
Comparable ROE, %  6.5  8.3  6.2 
Return on capital employed (ROCE), %  5.5  4.1  3.5 
Comparable ROCE, %  6.7  8.2  6.4 
Operating cash flow, € million  1,405  1,352  2,269 
Operating cash flow per share, €  2.66  2.54  4.25 
Equity per share at the end of period, €  18.97  20.89  20.93 
Capital employed at the end of period, € million  14,129  15,452  14,916 
Net debt, € million  3,004  2,869  2,432 
Net debt to EBITDA  2.29  1.66  1.55 
Personnel at the end of period  15,127  15,827  16,573 
Refer to » Other financial information, Alternative performance measures for definitions of key figures.
Results
2025 compared with 2024
In 2025, sales were €9,656 million, 7% lower than the €10,339 million in 
2024. Sales decreased due to lower sales prices and adverse changes in 
currencies, only partially offset by increased delivery volumes. Sales 
decreased in UPM Communication Papers, UPM Fibres, UPM Specialty 
Papers, UPM Plywood and UPM Energy business areas. Sales increased 
in UPM Adhesive Materials and in the Other operations reporting 
segment.
Comparable EBIT decreased by 25% to €921 million, 9.5 % of sales 
(1,224 million, 11.8%). Comparable EBIT decreased due to lower sales 
prices and adverse changes in currencies. 
Sales prices decreased in all business areas, most notably in UPM 
Fibres, UPM Communication Papers and UPM Specialty Papers. Variable 
costs decreased, as increases in wood costs were more than offset by 
decreases in most other input cost categories. Fixed costs also remained 
unchanged on the Group level.
Delivery volumes increased in UPM Fibres, UPM Adhesive Materials 
and Other operations. Deliveries fell the most in UPM Communication 
Papers. On the Group level, the net impact of changes in delivery volumes 
was neutral to earnings.
Depreciation, amortization and impairment charges excluding items 
affecting comparability, totaled €535 million (590 million) including 
depreciation of leased assets totaling €90 million (85 million). The 
change in the fair value of forest assets net of wood harvested was €144 
million (80 million).
Operating profit totaled €749 million (604 million). Items affecting 
comparability in operating profit totaled €-171 million in the period (-620 
million). In 2025, items affecting comparability include €42 million 
restructuring charges and €10 million impairment charges related to the 
closure of Ettringen paper mill in Germany, €36 million restructuring 
charges and €36 million impairment charges of fixed assets related to 
the closure of Kaukas paper machine 1 in Finland, €14 million reversal of 
restructuring charges related to the closure of Plattling paper mill in 2023, 
€9 million restructuring charges in UPM Communication Papers to 
improve mills' operations' efficiency, €4 million restructuring charges and 
€4 million impairment charges resulting from the exercise of a put option 
concerning the Kraftwerk Plattling power plant company in UPM 
Communication Papers, €28 million restructuring charges related to the 
discontinuation of label materials' production at Nancy factory in France, 
€30 million restructuring charges to improve operations' competitiveness 
and efficiency in UPM Adhesive Materials, €6 million addition to 
impairment charges and €2 million reversal of restructuring charges 
related to the closure of Kaltenkirchen factory, €2 million restructuring 
charges related to  discontinuation of Rotterdam refinery project, €3 
million restructuring charges and €1 million impairment charges related 
to the closure of the UPM Biomedicals business in Other operations, €10 
million charges related to strategic review of UPM Plywood Business Area 
UPM FINANCIAL REPORT 2025 119
UPM Annual Report 2025118 119
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors 

and to the announced non-binding joint venture transaction between 
Sappi and UPM in the graphic paper business, €46 million capital gain on 
sale of Plattling paper mill site, and €7 million capital gain on sale of non-
current assets. Additionally, items affecting comparability include other 
restructuring charges related to UPM Communication Papers, UPM 
Specialty Papers, UPM Adhesive Materials, UPM Plywood, UPM Fibres 
and Other operations.
In 2024, items affecting comparability included €373 million 
impairment of assets in biochemicals refinery in Leuna resulting from 
cost overruns and construction delays during the first-of-its-kind project. 
Additionally, items affecting comparability include €5 million impairment 
of UPM Biochemicals goodwill, and €113 million impairment of Pulp 
operations Finland goodwill resulting from high wood costs. Other items 
affecting comparability include €10 million restructuring charges and 
€26 million impairment charges of fixed assets related to closure of UPM 
Adhesive Materials' Kaltenkirchen factory in Germany, €40 million of 
restructuring and impairment charges related to the closure of Hürth 
newsprint mill in Germany, €54 million restructuring and impairment 
charges related to the closure of Nordland fine paper machine 3 in 
Germany, €4 million write down of inventory at the UPM Adhesive 
Materials' mill, located in Western North Carolina, USA, which was 
impacted by Hurricane Helene, €12 million restructuring and impairment 
charges related to the closure of the UPM Biocomposites business, a €21 
million capital gain on the sale of UPM-Kymmene Austria GmbH to 
HEINZEL GROUP, €9 million capital gain on the sale of other non-current 
assets, €12 million other restructuring costs and €8 million related to 
prior capacity closures.
Net interest and other finance costs were €-102 million (-97 million). 
The exchange rate and fair value gains and losses were €43 million (-7 
million). Items affecting comparability in finance costs totaled €-1 million 
(-3 million). Income taxes totaled €-200 million (-37 million). Items 
affecting comparability in taxes totaled €-51 million (133 million).
Profit for 2025 was €491 million (463 million), and comparable profit 
was €714 million (953 million).
Financing and cash flow
In 2025, the cash flow from operating activities before capital expenditure 
and financing totaled €1,405 million (1,352 million in 2024). Working 
capital decreased by €391 million (increased by 80 million).
Net debt was €3,004 million at the end of Q4 2025 (2,869 million at 
the end of Q4 2024). The gearing ratio as of December 31, 2025 was 29% 
(25%). The net debt to EBITDA ratio, based on the last 12 months' EBITDA, 
was 2.29 at the end of the period (1.66). 
On December 31, 2025, UPM's cash funds and unused committed 
credit facilities totaled €2.7 billion. The total amount of committed credit 
facilities was €2 billion of which €259 million will mature in 2027, €1.8 
billion will mature in 2029 or beyond. 
Between February 10 and April 8, 2025, the Group repurchased a total 
of 6,000,000 own shares, with approximately €160 million in cash outflow.
For the 2024 financial year, the dividend of €1.50 per share was paid in 
two equal instalments. The first instalment of €0.75 per share (totaling 
€397 million) was paid on April 8, 2025, and the second instalment of 
€0.75 per share was paid on November 7, 2025 (totaling €396 million)..
Capital expenditure
In 2025, capital expenditure excluding investments in shares totalled 
€409 million (527 million), and including investment in shares €621 
million, which was 6.4% of sales (550 million, 5.3% of sales in 2024). 
Capital expenditure does not include additions to leased assets.
In 2026, UPM's total capital expenditure, excluding investments in 
shares, is expected to be about €300 million.
In January 2020, UPM announced that it would invest in a 220,000 
tonne next-generation biochemicals biorefinery in Leuna, Germany. The 
total investment estimate is €1,335 million.
Personnel
In 2025, UPM had an average of 15,802 employees (16,282). At the 
beginning of the year the number of employees was 15,827 and at the end 
of 2025 it was 15,127. 
Further information about personnel is available in » Sustainability 
Statement 2025.
Planned graphic paper Joint Venture
On December 4, 2025, UPM announced it had signed a non-binding letter 
of intent with Sappi Limited to form a graphic paper Joint Venture. The 
Joint Venture would include the entire UPM Communication Papers 
business and Sappi’s graphic paper business in Europe. The Joint Venture 
would be owned 50/50 by UPM and Sappi. It would operate as an 
independent company, managing its own operations, resources, and 
decisions within agreed shareholder boundaries.
Securing long-term resilience and sustainability
The transaction would create a more efficient, adaptable and sustainable 
graphic paper business. It would create a structurally competitive cost 
base and supply security for the European and global customers.
By strategic reallocation of production volumes to the most efficient 
paper machines, the Joint Venture would achieve more sustainable 
capacity utilization and stronger operational performance, while 
continuing to serve customers with a broad portfolio of graphic paper 
products.
Overall, the Joint Venture would rationalize supply in an industry 
burdened by declining demand, structural overcapacity and high energy 
costs. It would contribute to a more balanced and resilient European 
market, and make the industry better positioned to withstand market 
challenges and increasing imports to Europe.
UPM Communication Papers has already today an ambitious climate 
action roadmap to reduce product emissions by up to 70% by 2030, 
supporting customers in achieving their climate targets. The Joint Venture 
would further enhance these opportunities. By optimizing capacity 
utilization, enhancing operational efficiencies and continuing to invest in 
decarbonization, the Joint Venture could reduce its overall climate 
impact, helping to advance the EU’s Clean Industrial Deal objectives.
UPM FINANCIAL REPORT 2025 120
Transaction overview and terms
The planned perimeter of the Joint Venture would include:
• The entire UPM Communication Papers business, including eight UPM 
Communication Papers’ paper mills at Kymi, Rauma (including UPM 
RaumaCell) and Jämsänkoski (paper line 6) in Finland; Nordland 
(paper lines 1 and 4), Augsburg, Schongau in Germany; UPM 
Caledonian paper mill in the UK and UPM Blandin paper mill in the 
USA; and
• Sappi’s European graphic paper business, including the following four 
graphic paper mills: Kirkniemi in Finland, Ehingen in Germany, 
Gratkorn in Austria and Maastricht in the Netherlands.
The Joint Venture is expected to create annual synergies estimated at 
about €100 million through asset optimization, product portfolio 
rationalization, logistics optimizations, sourcing efficiency improvements 
and operational efficiencies.
Based on the letter of intent
• UPM and Sappi would contribute their respective businesses and 
assets to the Joint Venture with a combined enterprise value of €1,420 
million, excluding the value of expected synergy benefits.
• UPM Communication Papers business is valued at €1,100 million 
(enterprise value). UPM would receive cash proceeds of €613 million 
and 50% shareholding in the Joint Venture.
• Sappi’s European business is valued at €320 million (enterprise value). 
Sappi would receive cash proceeds of €139 million and 50% 
shareholding in the Joint Venture.
At the closing of the transaction, the Joint Venture would raise debt to 
fund the purchase prices payable to Sappi and UPM respectively. The 
Joint Venture would be independently financed and to the extent it would 
require additional funding in the future, it shall be without any recourse to 
the shareholders.
The Joint Venture would distribute dividends to its two shareholders 
according to its financial performance and standing.
The establishment of the Joint Venture would create a sustainable 
standalone business that ultimately will provide divestment flexibility for 
both shareholders. Three years after closing, with the Joint Venture 
expected to have completed the integration and realized the synergies, 
either shareholder may initiate a divestment of their shareholding. 
Impact of the transaction on UPM financials
The financial benefit for UPM at closing would include the €613 million 
cash payment to UPM by the Joint Venture, €406 million transfer of 
pension liabilities to the Joint Venture and UPM’s share (50%) of the Joint 
Venture. The valuations and financial impact of the transaction are 
estimates at the time of the letter of intent, and subject to customary 
adjustments.
The valuation of UPM Communication Papers business at €1.1 billion 
is equal to a multiple of 4.6x EBITDA of last reported 12 months 
(Q4/2024-Q3/2025).
The UPM Communication Papers assets to be transferred to the Joint 
Venture represent less than 10% of UPM’s total assets.
The ownership in the Joint Venture would be accounted for using the 
equity method.
The transaction is expected to have a positive impact on UPM’s 
profitability margins (EBIT % of sales), balance sheet and leverage. UPM 
would also achieve a more focused business portfolio operating on 
growth markets and would no longer have direct sales exposure to the 
declining European and North American graphic paper markets.
Transaction subject to merger control and other conditions
Negotiations regarding the details of the Joint Venture are ongoing, and 
the parties expect the definitive agreements to be signed during the first 
half of 2026. The definitive agreements require the completion of external 
financing agreements, Sappi shareholder approval and other conditions.
The proposed transaction is subject to review by the European 
Commission and the relevant merger control and approval by the 
authorities in other jurisdictions such as the US, UK and China. The 
parties are committed to working with the regulatory authorities 
throughout the review process. 
It is currently expected that the closing would take place by the end of 
2026, subject to regulatory approvals and other closing conditions. The 
Joint Venture would become operational upon closing.
UPM Communication Papers and Sappi’s European graphic paper 
business will continue to operate as separate and independent 
companies and manage their respective businesses until the closing of 
the intended Joint Venture according to the satisfaction of all legal and 
regulatory requirements.
Strategic review of UPM Plywood
On September 23, 2025, UPM’s Board of Directors decided to initiate a 
strategic review of UPM Plywood business area to assess options for 
maximizing the long-term potential of the Plywood business in an 
evolving market environment. The strategic review includes a range of 
possibilities, including a potential separation from UPM through for 
example a divestment, partial demerger or initial public offering. The aim 
is to determine the best path forward for the Plywood business, while also 
benefiting the value creation for UPM’s shareholders. The review is 
expected to be concluded by the end of 2026.
During the strategic review process, UPM remains fully committed to 
the Plywood business and its customers.
Biochemicals refinery investment
In January 2020, UPM announced that it would invest in a 220,000 tonne 
next-generation biochemicals refinery in Leuna, Germany. The 
investment estimate is €1,335 million.
The start-up of the Leuna biorefinery progressed in 2025. The wood-to-
lignin-and-sugar process was successfully ramped up and the first 
commercial deliveries of industrial sugars took place in Q4 2025. With the 
achieved progress in the critical first part of the process and the 
advanced status of corrective works in the final core processes, 
production and sales of further products, lignin, renewable functional 
fillers and finally glycols is expected to start in 2026.
Commercial interest in the main products and side-streams has 
continued strong, with confirmed customer contracts and a sales and 
customer qualification pipeline that exceeds multiple times the annual 
capacity. The biorefinery is expected to reach full production and positive 
EBIT during 2027.
UPM FINANCIAL REPORT 2025 121
UPM Annual Report 2025120 121
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors 

The biorefinery will produce a range of 100% wood-based 
biochemicals, which will enable a switch from fossil raw materials to 
sustainable alternatives in various end-uses. The valuation of the 
products is driven by their sustainability performance which enables 
consumer brands to achieve market differentiation and by their superior 
technical performance. The investment opens new markets for UPM, with 
large growth potential for the future.
The industrial scale biorefinery will convert solid wood into next 
generation biochemicals: bio-monoethylene glycol (BioMEG) and 
Renewable Functional Fillers (RFF). In addition, the biorefinery will produce 
bio-monopropylene glycol (BioMPG) and industrial sugars. The ROCE 
target for the UPM Biochemicals business is 14%.
The combination of a sustainable wood supply, a unique technology 
concept, integration into existing infrastructure at Leuna and the 
proximity to customers will ensure the competitiveness of operations. The 
safety and sustainability of the value chain will meet UPM’s high 
standards and the strong focus on regional sourcing, especially of 
feedstock supports the market valuation.
InfraLeuna GmbH, in the state of Saxony-Anhalt, offers very 
competitive conditions for constructing a biorefinery with its logistics 
arrangements and infrastructure for various services and utilities.
Biofuels business development
On May 27, 2025, UPM announced plans to discontinue the development 
of its potential second biomass-to-fuels refinery at the Port of Rotterdam 
following extended technical, commercial and strategic evaluations. 
Consequently, UPM intends to halt all engineering activities related to the 
investment in Rotterdam and withdraw from all associated 
commitments.
Renewable fuels and renewable chemicals are the central elements of 
UPM’s long-term growth in decarbonization solutions. UPM is focusing on 
three targeted growth areas in its biofuels business:
• Evaluating the potential to debottleneck the Lappeenranta biorefinery 
in order to capture low CAPEX expansion opportunities and further 
leverage the strong market performance of CTO-derived biofuels.
• Enabling the qualification of CTO-derived UPM biofuels as sustainable 
aviation fuel (SAF). This strategic direction is supported by successful 
SAF trials conducted with the Austrian aircraft manufacturer Diamond 
Aircraft using Austro Engine propulsion and by continued progress in 
the technical acceptance process at the American Society for Testing 
and Materials (ASTM). Results from these trials and stakeholder 
reviews have been consistently positive.
• Continuing feedstock technology development to qualify and enable 
the use of additional competitive and sustainable biomass. This will 
support the cost-efficient production of high-quality biofuels for both 
road and aviation applications.
Change in the composition of reportable 
segments
The Group will change its reportable segments composition by moving 
UPM Forest business into UPM Fibres business area as of January 1, 2026. 
The vast majority of wood used by UPM in Finland is consumed within the 
UPM Fibres business, and the Finnish forests are therefore considered an 
integral operational and strategic part of UPM Fibres North operations. In 
addition, the change improves consistency with UPM Fibres operations in 
Uruguay, where forest assets have already been reported as part of the 
UPM Fibres South operations. Until the end of 2025, UPM Forest was 
included in Other operations.
UPM Biorefining, consisting of UPM Biochemicals and UPM Biofuels 
and reported as part of Other operations, will be renamed UPM Next 
Generation Renewables as of January 1, 2026.
Following these changes, Other Operations includes UPM Next 
Generation Renewables, Wood sourcing, Group services and Technology 
and forest assets in the US.  
The change will impact KPIs of UPM Fibres reportable segment and 
Other Operations. The comparative periods will be restated according to 
the new reporting principles. The reporting change has no impact on 
Group financial result or balance sheet. Further information » Note 10.1 
Forthcoming accounting policy changes in the Financial statements.
UPM Specialty Papers will be renamed UPM Specialty Materials as of 
January 1, 2026.
Events during the reporting period
On January 2, UPM announced that it has been listed as the only forest 
and paper industry company in the Dow Jones World and European 
Sustainability Indices 2024-2025.
On February 5, UPM updated its Disclosure Policy and changed its 
method of issuing profit guidance and outlook.
On February 5, 2025, UPM announced the acquisition of Metamark, a 
UK-based company to further accelerate UPM Adhesive Materials' 
growth.
On February 5, UPM announced the commencement of a share buy-
back program for a maximum of 6,000,000 shares or a maximum of 
€160 million.
On February 11, UPM was recognized among the top sustainability 
performers by CDP and S&P Global.
On March 11, UPM announced plans to permanently close its paper 
mill in Ettringen, Germany.
On March 27, UPM held its Annual General Meeting. 
On April 8, UPM announced the completion of the share buy-back 
program.
On May 5, UPM announced that the 6 million shares repurchased 
under its buy-back program have been cancelled.
On May 27, UPM announced plans to discontinue the development of 
its potential second biomass-to-fuels refinery at the Port of Rotterdam.
On June 12, UPM announced that the UPM Raflatac business area and 
reporting segment will be renamed UPM Adhesive Materials and the new 
reporting segment name will be in use from the Half year financial report 
2025 onwards.
On July 24, UPM announced plans to end paper production at UPM 
Kaukas, Finland by the end of 2025.
On July 24, UPM announced an investment in UPM Adhesive 
Materials' factory in Mills River, North Carolina, to increase production 
capacity in the growing advanced labels market.
On July 30, UPM received a Platinum rating from EcoVadis, placing 
the company in the top 1% globally for its sustainability performance.
UPM FINANCIAL REPORT 2025 122
On August 7, UPM announced an investment in a state-of-the-art 
coating line at UPM Adhesive Materials' factory in Johor Bahru, Malaysia.
On September 4, UPM announced plans to discontinue production at 
UPM Adhesive Materials' factory in Nancy, France.
On September 23, UPM initiated a strategic review of the UPM 
Plywood business area, possibly resulting in a separation through a 
divestment, partial demerger or initial public offering.
On September 29, UPM entered into a strategic partnership with 
Versowood, consisting of the sale of the UPM Korkeakoski sawmill to 
Versowood, and Versowood supplying UPM with pulpwood and sawmill 
by-products.
On October 7, UPM agreed to sell the former Plattling paper mill site to 
Bayernhafen GmbH & Co. KG, a logistics hub and infrastructure 
company.
On October 9, UPM announced that Adhesive Materials expands its 
footprint in Southeast Asia with a new slitting and distribution terminal 
near Hanoi, Northern Vietnam to support growth in Southeast Asia.
On December 4, UPM announced that it has signed a non-binding 
letter of intent with Sappi to form a graphic paper joint venture.
On December 16, UPM signed a €1 250 million revolving credit facility 
agreement.
Events after the balance sheet date
On January 2, UPM announced that the strategic partnership agreement 
between UPM and Versowood has received the necessary regulatory 
approvals and has entered into force on December 31, 2025.
On January 12, UPM announced that it received leadership scores in 
CDP 2025 assessment for environmental efficiency and transparent 
reporting on climate, forest, and water-related actions.
Profit guidance
UPM’s comparable EBIT in H1 2026 is expected to be approximately in 
the range of €325-525 million (€413 million in H1 2025, and €508 million 
in H2 2025).
Outlook for 2026
The business environment at the beginning of the year is showing signs of 
stability, even if there continue to be significant uncertainties in geopolitics 
and trade.
In H1 2026, compared with H2 2025, UPM’s performance is expected 
to benefit from moderately higher sales prices and delivery volumes and 
moderately lower fixed costs. Performance is expected to be held back by 
continued weak communication paper markets and increased costs 
during the early phase of the production ramp-up at UPM Leuna. 
Currencies started the year at similar levels, compared with H2 2025. 
Comparable EBIT in H2 2025 benefited from the timing of energy refunds 
and increased fair value of forest assets, items that are not expected to 
take place during H1 2026 in similar quantities.
In H1 2026, compared with H1 2025, UPM’s performance is expected to 
benefit from lower variable costs and moderately higher delivery volumes. 
Maintenance activity is expected to be lower than in the comparison 
period. Performance is expected to be held back by continued weak 
communication paper markets and increased costs during the early 
phase of the production ramp-up at UPM Leuna. Currencies at the 
beginning of the year are negative to comparable EBIT, compared with H1 
2025.
Sensitivity to pulp and electricity prices
UPM’s comparable EBIT is sensitive to pulp and electricity prices. The 
figures below represent Group earnings sensitivities on annual level.
UPM is a large producer and consumer of chemical pulp. A €50/
tonne change in average pulp price would impact annual comparable 
EBIT by approximately €180 million (net impact: assuming no correlation 
between pulp and paper prices) to approximately €270 million (gross 
impact: assuming paper pricing would match changes in pulp costs).
UPM is a large producer and consumer of electricity in Finland and 
separately hedges part of its electricity sales and purchases. Based on 
UPM’s estimated unhedged net electricity sales position in Finland in 
2026, a €10/MWh change in average electricity market price in Finland 
would impact annual comparable EBIT by approximately €40 million.
Foreign exchange exposure
Fluctuations in monetary policies and economic conditions can 
significantly impact the value of various currencies, which in turn may 
affect UPM. Additionally, the escalation of global trade tensions could 
influence currency exchange rates. These currency fluctuations could 
impact UPM’s cash flow, earnings, or balance sheet, and may also affect 
the relative competitiveness between different currency regions.
The Group’s policy is to hedge an average of 50% of its estimated net 
currency cash flows on a rolling basis over the next 12-month period. At 
the end of 2025, UPM’s estimated net currency cash flows for the next 12 
months totaled approximately €1.5 billion. USD was the largest exposure 
at approximately €1.3 billion, followed by UYU, GBP and JPY. In addition, 
the earnings of UPM’s foreign subsidiaries are translated to euros in 
reporting. UPM has significant foreign subsidiaries in Uruguay, the U.S. 
and China. 
UPM FINANCIAL REPORT 2025 123
UPM Annual Report 2025122 123
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors 

UPM Fibres UPM Energy
UPM Fibres consists of pulp and timber 
businesses. UPM Pulp offers a versatile 
range of responsibly-produced pulp 
grades suitable for a wide range of end-
uses. UPM Timber offers certified sawn 
timber. UPM has two pulp mills and 
plantation operations in Uruguay (Fibres 
South) as well as three pulp mills and 
three sawmills in Finland (Fibres North).  
% of sales
Comparable EBIT
€ million
24 25
0
200
400
600
0
10
20
UPM Energy generates cost-
competitive, zero-carbon electricity. 
Operations also include physical 
electricity and financial portfolio 
management as well as services to 
industrial electricity consumers. 
UPM Energy is the second largest 
electricity producer in Finland. 
UPM’s power generation capacity 
consists of hydropower, nuclear 
power and thermal power.
% of sales
Comparable EBIT
€ million
24 25
0
100
200
0
20
40
2025 2024
Sales, € million  3,407  3,728 
Comparable EBITDA, € million  511  844 
% of sales  15.0  22.6 
Depreciation, amortization and impairment charges, € 
million  65  11 
Share of results of associates and joint ventures, € million  2  2 
Depreciation, amortization and impairment charges, € million  -295  -437 
Operating profit, € million  282  419 
% of sales  8.3  11.2 
Items affecting comparability in operating profit, € million 1)  0  -114 
Comparable EBIT,€ million  283  533 
% of sales  8.3  14.3 
Capital employed (average), € million  6,745  7,153 
Comparable ROCE, %  4.2  7.5 
Pulp deliveries, 1,000 t  5,163  4,945 
1) 2025 includes €1 million restructuring charges and €1 million capital gain on sale on 
Korkeakoski saw mill. 2024 includes €113 million goodwill impairment related to Pulp 
Finland and minor restructuring charges.
2025 compared with 2024
The comparable EBIT decreased due to significantly lower sales prices. 
Variable costs were at the same level. Delivery volumes increased. 
The average price in euro for UPM's pulp deliveries decreased by 15%
Market environment
• In 2025, the downward trend in chemical pulp market prices continued 
until Q4 when Chinese pulp market gained some momentum.
• In 2025, the average European market price in euros was 2% lower for 
NBSK and 15% lower for BHKP compared to 2024. In China, the 
average market price in US dollars was 6% lower for NBSK and 16% 
lower for BHKP compared to 2024.
• In 2025, European demand for sawn timber continued to be relatively 
weak due to low construction activity.
Sources: FOEX, UPM
2025 2024
Sales, € million  615  627 
Comparable EBITDA, € million  158  188 
% of sales  25.6  30.0 
Depreciation, amortization and impairment charges, € 
million  -7  -7 
Operating profit, € million  151  181 
% of sales  24.5  28.9 
Items affecting comparability in operating profit, € million 1)  —  — 
Comparable EBIT, € million  151  181 
% of sales  24.5  28.9 
Capital employed (average), € million  2,603  2,426 
Comparable ROCE, %  5.8  7.5 
Electricity deliveries, GWh  11,141  11,328 
2025 compared with 2024
The comparable EBIT decreased due to lower sales prices and higher 
production costs.
UPM’s average electricity sales price decreased by 2% to €50.3/MWh 
(€51.4/MWh).
Market environment
• Both the Nordic and Finnish hydrological balance was close to the 
long-term average at the end of December.
• The average Finnish area spot price on the Nordic electricity exchange 
in 2025 was € 40.5/MWh, 11% lower than in 2024 (€ 45.6/MWh).
• The front-year forward electricity price for the Finnish area closed at € 
40.6/MWh in December, 16% lower than at the end of Q3 2025 (€ 48.1/
MWh).
Sources: The Norwegian Water Resources and Energy Directorate, Svensk Energi, Finnish 
Environment Institute, Nord Pool, NASDAQ OMX, ICE, UPM
UPM FINANCIAL REPORT 2025 124
UPM Adhesive Materials UPM Specialty Papers
UPM Adhesive Materials offers high-
quality self-adhesive paper and film 
products including label materials, 
graphics solutions and removable 
self-adhesive products. UPM 
Adhesive Materials is the second-
largest producer of self-adhesive 
label materials worldwide.
% of sales
Comparable EBIT 
€ million
24 25
0
50
100
150
0
5
10
15
UPM Specialty Papers offers 
labelling and packaging materials 
as well as office and graphic papers 
for labelling, commercial siliconizing, 
packaging, office use and printing. 
The production plants are located in 
China, Finland and Germany.
% of sales
Comparable EBIT
€ million
24 25
0
50
100
150
0
5
10
15
2025 2024
Sales, € million  1,655  1,562 
Comparable EBITDA, € million  176  177 
% of sales  10.7  11.3 
Depreciation, amortization and impairment charges, € 
million  -61  -71 
Operating profit, € million  53  88 
% of sales  3.2  5.6 
Items affecting comparability in operating profit, € million 1)  -70  -44 
Comparable EBIT, € million  124  132 
% of sales  7.5  8.5 
Capital employed (average), € million  860  722 
Comparable ROCE, %  14.4  18.3 
1) 2025 includes €30 million restructuring charges to improve operations' competitiveness 
and efficiency, €28 million restructuring charges related to the discontinuation of label 
materials' production at Nancy factory in France, €6 million addition to impairment 
charges and €2 million reversal of restructuring charges related to the closure of 
Kaltenkirchen factory, €3 million charges related to Metamark acquisition and a €1 million 
addition to charges related to Adhesive Materials factory which was impacted by 
Hurricane Helene and €3 million addition to prior restructuring charges. 2024 includes €11 
million restructuring charges and €26 million impairment charges related to the closure of 
Kaltenkirchen factory, €6 million write down of inventory and an €3 million insurance 
compensation related to UPM Adhesive Materials' inventory in USA impacted by 
Hurricane Helene, and €5 million relating to other restructuring measures. 
2025 compared with 2024
The comparable EBIT decreased. The positive impact of higher volumes 
was more than offset by the negative impacts from prices and mix, fixed 
costs and currencies.
Market environment 
• In 2025, global market for self-adhesive label materials continued to 
recover from its 2023 lows, with growth being strongest in Europe. 
APAC markets had intense competitive dynamics.
Sources: UPM, FINAT, TLMI
2025 2024
Sales, € million  1,315  1,467 
Comparable EBITDA, € million  204  208 
% of sales  15.5  14.2 
Depreciation, amortization and impairment charges, € 
million  -57  -74 
Operating profit, € million  144  132 
% of sales  11.0  9.0 
Items affecting comparability in operating profit, € million 1)  -3  -3 
Comparable EBIT, € million  147  135 
% of sales  11.2  9.2 
Capital employed (average), € million  706  789 
Comparable ROCE, %  20.9  17.1 
Paper deliveries, 1000 t  1,398  1,429 
1) Items affecting comparability in 2025 and in 2024 relate to restructuring measures.
2025 compared with 2024
The comparable EBIT increased, mainly due to lower depreciation. The 
negative impact of lower volumes and sales prices was offset by the 
positive impact of lower input costs.
Market environment
• In 2025, market demand for specialty papers was affected by tariff 
uncertainties. Market prices decreased compared to 2024.
Sources: UPM, RISI, AFRY, AWA
UPM FINANCIAL REPORT 2025 125
UPM Annual Report 2025124 125
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors 

UPM Communication Papers UPM Plywood
UPM Communication Papers offers 
an extensive product range of 
sustainably produced graphic 
papers for advertising and 
publishing as well as home and 
office uses. The business has 8 
efficient paper mills in Europe and 
the United States.
% of sales
Comparable EBIT 
€ million
24 25
0
100
200
300
0
5
10
15
UPM Plywood offers high quality 
WISA® plywood and veneer 
products for construction, vehicle 
flooring, LNG shipbuilding, parquet 
manufacturing and other industrial 
applications. 
% of sales
Comparable EBIT 
€ million
24 25
0
20
40
0
5
10
15
2025 2024
Sales, € million  2,493  2,953 
Comparable EBITDA, € million  241  344 
% of sales  9.7  11.6 
Share of results of associates and joint ventures, € million  0  0 
Depreciation, amortization and impairment charges, € 
million  -109  -100 
Operating profit, € million  107  190 
% of sales  4.3  6.4 
Items affecting comparability in operating profit, € million 1)  -75  -83 
Comparable EBIT, € million  181  273 
% of sales  7.3  9.3 
Capital employed (average), € million  1,018  1,151 
Comparable ROCE, %  17.8  23.8 
Paper deliveries, 1000 t  2,893  3,263 
1) 2025 includes €42 million restructuring charges and €10 million impairment charges 
related to the closure of Ettringen paper mill in Germany, €36 million restructuring charges 
and €36 million impairment charges of fixed assets related to the closure of Kaukas paper 
machine 1 in Finland, €14 million reversal of restructuring charges related to the closure of 
Plattling paper mill in 2023, €9 million restructuring charges in UPM Communication 
Papers to improve mills' operations' efficiency, €4 million restructuring charges and €4 
million impairment charges resulting from the exercise of a put option concerning the 
Kraftwerk Plattling power plant company, € 46 million capital gain on sale of Plattling 
paper mill site, €7 million capital gain on sale of non-current assets and €1 million addition 
to prior restructuring charges. 2024 includes €8 million addition to restructuring charges 
related to the closure of Plattling mill, €40 million of restructuring and impairment charges 
related to the closure of Hürth newsprint mill in Germany, €54 million restructuring and 
impairment charges related to the closure of Nordland fine paper machine 3 in Germany, 
€21 million capital gain on sale of UPM-Kymmene Austria GmbH and other restructuring 
charges. 
2025 compared with 2024
The comparable EBIT decreased. Delivery volumes and sales prices were 
lower. Variable and fixed costs decreased.
The average price in euros for UPM's paper deliveries decreased by 
5%.
Market environment
• In 2025, demand for graphic papers in Europe was 8% lower than in 
2024. Newsprint demand decreased by 8%, magazine papers 11%, and 
fine papers 6%
• Demand for magazine papers in North America in 2025 was 10% lower 
than in 2024. In Q4 2025 magazine paper demand declined by -13% 
compared to Q4 2024.
• The average price in North America for magazine paper grades was 
stable throughout the year 2025.
Sources: PPI/RISI, Euro-Graph, PPPC
2025 2024
Sales, € million  409  430 
Comparable EBITDA, € million  55  65 
% of sales  13.6  15.0 
Depreciation, amortization and impairment charges, € 
million  -20  -23 
Operating profit, € million  31  42 
% of sales  7.6  9.7 
Items affecting comparability in operating profit, € million 1)  -4  0 
Comparable EBIT, € million  35  42 
% of sales  8.7  9.7 
Capital employed (average), € million  230  243 
Comparable ROCE, %  15.4  17.1 
Plywood deliveries, 1,000 m3  458  482 
1) Items affecting comparability in 2025 relate to earlier restructuring measures. 
2025 compared with 2024
The comparable EBIT decreased. The strikes at the Finnish mills in H1 
limited volumes and wood cost was higher.
Market environment
• In 2025, demand for spruce plywood in Europe was stable but 
comparatively slow as construction markets remained soft.
• In 2025, demand for birch plywood in panel trading and industrial end 
uses was good.
• In 2025, demand for LNG end-use birch plywood continued at a very 
good level.
Source: UPM
UPM FINANCIAL REPORT 2025 126
Other operations
Other Operations includes UPM Forest, 
UPM Biofuels and UPM Biochemicals 
business units as well as biofuels 
development and Group services. UPM 
Forest secures competitive wood and 
biomass for UPM businesses and 
manages UPM-owned and privately owned 
forests in North Europe. In addition, UPM 
Forest offers forestry services to forest 
owners and forest investors. UPM Biofuels 
produces wood-based renewable diesel for 
all diesel engines and renewable naphtha 
that can be used as a biocomponent for 
gasoline or for replacing fossil raw 
materials in petrochemical industry. UPM 
operates one biorefinery in Finland.
Comparable EBIT 
€ million
24 25
-50
-25
0
25
2025 2024
Sales, € million  693  623 
Comparable EBITDA, € million  -25  -72 
Change in fair value of forest assets and wood 
harvested, € million  80  68 
Share of results of associated companies and joint 
ventures, € million  -2  -1 
Depreciation, amortization and impairment 
charges, € million  -45  -427 
Operating profit, € million  -8  -434 
Items affecting comparability in operating profit, € 
million 1)  -17  -382 
Comparable EBIT, € million  9  -52 
Capital employed (average), € million  3,112  3,129 
Comparable ROCE, %  0.3  -1.7 
1) 2025 includes €10 million charges related to strategic review of UPM Plywood Business 
Area and to the announced non-binding joint venture transaction between Sappi and UPM 
in the graphic paper business, €3 million restructuring charges and €1 million impairment 
charges related to the closure of the UPM Biomedicals business, €1 million reversal of 
restructuring charges related to the closure of UPM Biocomposites business, €2 million 
restructuring charges related to discontinuation of Rotterdam refinery project and €1 
million impairment of residual goodwill in Other operations.2024 includes €5 million 
impairment of UPM Biochemicals goodwill and €373 million impairment on assets in 
biochemicals refinery in Leuna, €12 million restructuring and impairment charges related 
to the closure of the UPM Biocomposites business, and €9 million capital gain on sale of 
non-current assets. 
2025 compared with 2024
The comparable EBIT increased, mainly due to improved performance in 
the Biofuels business. The change in the fair value of forest assets net of 
wood harvested was €80 million (68 million). The change in the fair value 
of forest assets was €156 million (195 million). The cost of wood harvested 
from UPM forests was €77 million (126 million).
Biofuels deliveries were higher and feed cost decreased significantly, 
resulting in improved margins which were supported by increasing prices 
in UPM key markets.
Market environment
• In Q4 2025, demand in the European markets for advanced renewable 
fuels was solid, RED III implementation in Germany progressed with 
favorable regulatory scope and led to improving market prices.
• In 2025, interest in bio-based glycols and renewable functional fillers 
remained strong, supported by a stable interest of brand owners and 
consumers in renewable materials and the strong sustainability and 
technical value proposition of UPM’s offering.
Source: UPM
Board of Directors and 
the Group Executive Team
At the Annual General Meeting held on March 27, 2025, the number of 
members of the Board of Directors was confirmed as nine, and Henrik 
Ehrnrooth, Pia Aaltonen-Forsell, Jari Gustafsson, Piia-Noora Kauppi, Topi 
Manner, Marjan Oudeman, Martin à Porta and Kim Wahl were re-elected 
to the Board. Melanie Maas-Brunner was elected as a new director to the 
Board. The directors’ term of office will end upon the closure of the next 
AGM.
Henrik Ehrnrooth was elected as Chair, and Kim Wahl as Deputy Chair 
of the Board of Directors of UPM-Kymmene Corporation at the Board of 
Directors’ constitutive meeting that took place following the Annual 
General Meeting.
In addition, the Board of Directors elected the chairs and other 
members to the Board committees from among its members: Pia 
Aaltonen-Forsell was elected to chair the Audit Committee, and Jari 
Gustafsson and Marjan Oudeman were elected as other committee 
members. Martin à Porta was re-elected to chair the Remuneration 
Committee, and Melanie Maas-Brunner and Topi Manner were elected as 
other committee members. Henrik Ehrnrooth was re-elected to chair the 
Nomination and Governance Committee, and Piia-Noora Kauppi and 
Kim Wahl were elected as other committee members.
Shares held by the Board of Directors and the 
Group Executive Team
At the end of the year, the members of the Board of Directors owned a 
total of 167,744 (146,373) UPM-Kymmene Corporation shares. These 
represent 0.03% (0.03%) of the shares and 0.03% (0.03%) of the voting 
rights. At the end of the year, President and CEO Massimo Reynaudo 
owned 23,321 shares. At the end of the year, the other members of the 
Group Executive Team owned a total of 517,226  shares.
Refer to » Note 3.2 Key management personnel, of the consolidated 
financial statements 2025, for further information on remuneration and 
shares held by the members of the Board and the President and CEO and 
remuneration of the members of Group Executive Team.
Legal proceedings
The Group’s management is not aware of any significant litigation at the 
end of 2025.
Refer to » Note 9.2 Litigation, of the consolidated financial statements 
2025 for information on legal proceedings.
UPM FINANCIAL REPORT 2025 127
UPM Annual Report 2025126 127
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors 

Risks
Risk management
UPM regards risk management as a systematic and proactive means to 
analyze and manage opportunities and threats related to its business 
operations. This also includes risks that can be avoided through careful 
planning and evaluation of future projects and business environments.
Risk management is an integral part of UPM’s management system 
as risk taking is a normal part of business operations. While executing 
strategies, UPM and its business areas, functions and manufacturing 
units are exposed to a number of risks and opportunities. Each business 
area, function and unit is responsible for identifying, measuring and 
managing of risks related to its own operations, and for reporting on risk 
exposures, risk management activities and results to its 
own management team and to the Risk Management function.
The Risk Management Committee, chaired by the CFO, is responsible 
for recommending risk tolerances and profiles to the President and CEO 
and the Strategy Team. The Strategy Team is responsible for aligning risk 
management priorities, business and risk management strategies and 
policies.
The Board of Directors, assisted by the Audit Committee, monitors 
and assesses the effectiveness of the company’s risk management 
systems and oversees the assessment and management of risks related 
to the company’s strategy and operations. The Audit Committee 
oversees that risk management activities are aligned with the Risk 
Management Policy, and that risk assessments are used to guide internal 
audit activities.
UPM seeks to transfer insurable risks through insurance 
arrangements for any risks that exceed the defined tolerance.
UPM strives to ensure compliance with the UPM Code of Conduct and 
other corporate policies. To enhance compliance and mitigate risks, UPM 
performs risk assessments, training and monitoring at regular intervals.
UPM has developed and implemented a comprehensive internal 
control system that covers business and financial reporting processes. 
Internal control is aimed at ensuring that the company’s operations are 
efficient and reliable, and in compliance with statutory requirements, and 
that the company’s financial reporting is accurate and reliable, and 
reflects operational results. Internal control pertaining to financial 
reporting is described in the Corporate Governance Statement available 
on the corporate website.
The main risk factors that can materially affect the company’s 
business, financial results and non-financial performance are set out 
below. They have been classified as strategic risks, operational risks, and 
financial risks. Risks may also arise from legal proceedings incidental to 
UPM’s operations.
 Strategic risks
Uncertainties in the economic and political operating 
environment 
The main uncertainties in UPM’s earnings relate to sales prices and 
delivery volumes of the Group's products, as well as changes to the main 
input cost items and currency exchange rates. Most of these items 
depend on general economic developments. Political developments are 
causing uncertainties to the global economy. Such uncertainties also 
affect UPM’s customers influencing the demand for UPM’s products. 
Currently high uncertainty relates to the trade tensions between major 
economies, particular to the tariffs introduced by the U.S. on imports from 
nearly all countries in the world, and the potential countermeasures 
introduced by the other countries. Changes to the tariff levels remain 
possible.
The trade conflict and the related uncertainty may impact the general 
economic development of various regions or have significant impacts on 
inflation, economic growth, interest rates and currency exchange rates in 
many economies relevant for UPM. Such developments could have 
indirect impacts on UPM, for example by impacting demand and supply 
of various products or raw materials, or redirecting trade flows between 
countries and regions, which could impact deliveries and pricing of UPM’s 
products or cost of raw materials on markets relevant for UPM.
Geopolitical tensions, including Russia's ongoing war in Ukraine, the 
conflicts in the Middle East or the recent tension over Greenland, continue 
to cause high uncertainty in the operating environment, which may 
impact economic growth, inflation and trade. The potential escalation in 
geopolitical or trade tensions may result in economic sanctions, 
blockades, increased tariff levels, or other export and/or import 
restrictions that could limit or prevent UPM’s business in a country or 
area or cause adverse effects on energy, logistics or other main input cost 
items, such as the cost and availability of wood in Finland, or on demand 
for UPM's products or sales prices.
UPM is also exposed to the impacts of certain governmental 
protection and trade protection measures such as import tariffs, foreign 
direct investment restrictions that safeguard domestic industries and 
other changes affecting international trade. Restrictions on import and 
export and other measures protecting national interests may affect the 
availability or cost of necessary raw materials, price competitiveness 
compared to producers from other countries, demand for UPM's 
products, and changes in the international trade agreements.
Fluctuations in fiscal, monetary and other policies and economic 
conditions can significantly impact on the value of various currencies, 
which in turn may affect UPM. Additionally, the escalation of global trade 
tensions could influence currency exchange rates. These currency 
changes could impact UPM's cash flow, earnings, or balance sheet, and 
may also affect the competitiveness between different currency regions. 
UPM is especially exposed to the economic and political conditions in 
countries in which UPM has significant production operations, such as 
Finland, Uruguay and Germany. UPM also has significant production 
operations and sales in and to China where the lack of transparency and 
predictability of the political, economic and legal systems may lead to an 
increasing uncertainty and risk level when investing in or operating in the 
country. UPM's subsidiary and employees in Ukraine are exposed to a 
challenging and unpredictable environment stemming from Russia's 
ongoing war in Ukraine. 
Cyclical and highly competitive markets
In all markets UPM operates in, the price level is determined by a 
combination of supply and demand and an imbalance between them 
could cause the prices of UPM’s products to fluctuate significantly. 
Imbalances in supply and demand may be caused by factors such as 
decreases or increases in the end-use demand, changes in customer 
UPM FINANCIAL REPORT 2025 128
preferences, market adjustments to Russia's ongoing war in Ukraine or 
global trade tensions, or a new production capacity entering the market 
or an old production capacity being closed, all of which may affect both 
the demand volume and price level of UPM’s products. 
Competitor behavior may also influence the market price 
development. UPM may, from time to time, experience price pressures 
from competitors in its main business areas and geographic market 
areas as well as particularly large fluctuations in operating margins due to 
this competitive environment. 
The majority of UPM’s revenue comes from sales of graphic and 
specialty papers, pulp and label materials, and UPM principally competes 
with several large multinational paper and forest product companies as 
well as with numerous regional or more specialized competitors.
Changes in consumer behavior 
Demand for UPM’s products may be affected by the introduction of 
substitute or alternative products. The demand for graphic papers in the 
mature markets is forecast to continue to decline. This will likely increase 
the pressure on UPM’s graphic paper deliveries and sales prices as well as 
the scarcity of recycled fibre. Changes in demand could also cause 
overcapacity in some of UPM’s products, affecting the sales prices and 
deliveries of such products.
Depending on the product area, the shifts in consumer demand may 
either have a positive or an adverse effect on the consumption of UPM’s 
products. For example, UPM expects that there will continue to be a 
growing need for renewable and recyclable solutions, which creates 
various opportunities for UPM and drive demand growth for most of 
UPM’s products. At the same time, digitalization and e-commerce have 
changed consumer behavior and resulted in a decline in demand for 
graphic papers for various end-uses.
Changes in legislation 
UPM is exposed to a wide range of laws and regulations globally. The 
performance of UPM’s businesses, for example the paper, energy, and 
biofuels businesses, are to a high degree dependent on the regulatory 
framework for these areas. Changes in regulation, direct and indirect 
taxation or subsidies, aid, grants or allowances could have a direct effect 
on UPM’s performance and its relative competitiveness, and structurally 
restrict or exacerbate UPM’s ability to compete for raw material.
UPM also operates in industries that are subject to extensive 
environmental laws and regulations governing, among others, emissions, 
water quality, energy efficiency, as well as waste handling, recycling and 
disposal. Environmental laws and regulations have become more 
stringent and may continue to develop to be even more strict due to 
various global, regional and national level regulatory initiatives. As these 
environmental laws and regulations are amended or as their application or 
enforcement is changed, additional costs in complying with new and more 
stringent regulations or fines for their non-compliance may be imposed on 
UPM. 
UPM’s operations require UPM to obtain multiple environmental 
permits and other licenses from relevant authorities and comply with their 
terms and conditions. These permits and licenses may be subject to 
modification, renewal or, subject to certain conditions, revocation by the 
issuing authorities. UPM monitors regulatory changes in order to better 
adapt to the effects of such changes. 
Shareholdings in Pohjolan Voima Oyj
UPM is a shareholder of Pohjolan Voima Oyj (PVO), which is the majority 
shareholder of Teollisuuden Voima Oyj (TVO). TVO owns and operates 
three nuclear power plant units at the Olkiluoto site (OL). PVO supplies 
electricity to its shareholders on a cost-price principle (so called 
‘Mankala-principle’) that is widely applied in the Finnish energy industry. 
Under the Mankala principle, electricity and/or heat is supplied to the 
shareholders in proportion to their ownership and each shareholder is, 
pursuant to the specific stipulations of the respective Articles of 
Association, severally responsible for its respective share of the 
production costs of the energy company concerned. The newest plant 
unit, Olkiluoto 3 EPR (OL3), started regular commercial electricity 
production in 2023 increased UPM’s electricity generation capacity 
significantly. 
In Finland, UPM indirectly owns approximately 31% of the new nuclear 
power plant unit OL3, through its shareholdings in Pohjolan Voima Oyj. 
Pohjolan Voima Oyj is a majority shareholder of Teollisuuden Voima Oyj 
(TVO), holding 58.5% of its shares. 
TVO procured OL3 as a fixed-price turnkey project from a consortium 
(Plant Supplier) formed by Areva GmbH, Areva NP SAS and Siemens AG. 
As stipulated in the Plant Contract, the consortium companies have joint 
and several liability for the contractual obligations. According to TVO’s 
financial statements from 2023, total investment in OL3 was 
approximately €5.8 billion. June 2025 marked the final takeover of the 
OL3 nuclear power unit, which operated smoothly in its second full year of 
continuous commercial production.
TVO has announced that even though there have been few 
interruptions to electricity generation at OL3 following the conclusion of 
the test operation program, there are uncertainties related to the 
availability of OL3 during the first operating cycles due to the possibility of 
unexpected events. These uncertainties are managed by means of 
systematic maintenance and monitoring of the plant unit.
According to TVO, if OL3 fails to achieve the planned load factor or 
operating cost structure, the Finnish national grid limits its power level, or 
the costs incurred by TVO due to grid load limitation make it unprofitable 
to operate at full power, there is a risk of production costs exceeding 
TVO’s target.
Climate change
UPM is exposed to a variety of risks related to climate change. Strategic 
risks related to climate change include risks concerning competition, 
markets, customers, products and regulation. For example, unpredictable 
regulation, subsidies or EU policies and resulting national legislation in EU 
countries may distort raw material, energy and final product markets and 
changing costs of greenhouse gas emissions may influence UPM’s 
financial performance. Policies and regulations responding to Russia’s 
war in Ukraine and cutting Russian gas supply to Europe or policies of the 
current U.S. government that emphasize energy supply security over 
climate targets may change the trajectory of climate change or slow 
down the achievement of emission reductions. UPM believes that forest, 
wood-based products and low-carbon energy hold significant value 
creation potential with respect to renewable and recyclable products.
Other risks related to climate change particularly concern UPM’s 
supply chain as well as the availability and price of major inputs, such as 
wood and electricity. Climate change may cause exceptional weather 
UPM FINANCIAL REPORT 2025 129
UPM Annual Report 2025128 129
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors 

events, such as severe storms, floods and droughts, which could, for 
example, result in unpredictable hydropower availability and wood 
harvesting conditions. Exceptionally mild winter conditions with a reduced 
period of frozen soil in the Nordics could affect the harvesting and 
transport of wood, consequently undermine the stability of raw material 
supply and potentially increasing the cost of wood. These could also 
increase the risk of production limitations.
Biodiversity loss
Biodiversity refers to the diversity and variation of species and 
ecosystems on our planet. According to the UN, and despite ongoing 
efforts, biodiversity is deteriorating worldwide. Biodiversity loss is projected 
to worsen if no mitigation actions are taken. Mitigating climate change is, 
in our view, the single most important action to safeguard biodiversity.
UPM’s operations are widely linked with biodiversity, and most 
significant impacts on biodiversity arise from wood sourcing activities. 
Biodiversity is instrumental in maintaining healthy forest growth and 
ensuring that forests adapt to the changing climate. Mitigating 
biodiversity loss also plays an important role in our hydropower plants 
and production units where we aim to improve living conditions for local 
fauna and flora with dedicated actions. Deteriorating biodiversity may 
cause significant adverse effects on the availability and acceptability of 
wood raw material needed to produce UPM’s products such as pulp, 
paper, timber and biofuels. 
Loss of major customers and industry consolidation 
UPM has several major customers, and the largest customer in terms of 
sales represented approximately 3% of UPM’s sales in 2025, and the ten 
largest customers represented approximately 12% of such sales. Although 
UPM is not dependent on any specific customer or group of customers, 
the loss of its major customers, if not replaced on similar terms, could 
have a material effect on UPM’s business. Also, as the size of UPM’s 
customers could increase in connection with industry consolidation, such 
customers could exert increased bargaining power on all of their 
suppliers, including UPM. UPM is also exposed to risks related to any 
deterioration of a major customer group’s financial condition. 
Product development, innovation and intellectual 
property rights
Research and product development are an important part of UPM’s 
strategy, particularly with regard to new businesses, such as wood-based 
biofuels and biochemicals. The return on investment of new or enhanced 
existing products and solutions may not meet targets or improve UPM’s 
competitiveness.
UPM has a broad patent portfolio that provides value creation 
potential in the future; however, it also exposes UPM to risks related to the 
protection and management of intellectual property, including patents 
and trademarks. 
Corporate acquisitions and divestments 
UPM’s strategy is to grow businesses with strong long-term fundamentals 
and sustainable competitive advantage. This may result in acquisitions of 
new businesses or divestments of existing businesses or parts thereof. 
Carrying out corporate mergers, acquisitions and divestments involves 
risks relating to the successful implementation of a divestment and the 
ability to integrate and manage acquired businesses, systems, culture 
and personnel successfully. In addition, the cost of an acquisition may 
prove high and/or the anticipated economies of scale or synergies may 
not materialize. Hidden liabilities of an acquired company (e.g., 
competition law liabilities) may also constitute a significant risk in relation 
to potential acquisitions.
UPM may divest operations or assets to focus on strategic areas. Any 
future divestments may be affected by many factors that are beyond 
UPM’s control, such as the availability of financing to potential buyers, 
interest rates, acquirers’ capacity, and regulatory approval processes, and 
divestments may also expose UPM to indemnity claims. Furthermore, 
divestments may involve additional costs due to historical and 
unaccounted liabilities. The profitability of corporate acquisitions and 
divestments may differ from UPM’s expectations. 
Operational risks
Fluctuations in the prices of major inputs as well as 
changes in their availability 
The main inputs required in the manufacturing of UPM’s products are 
wood, fibre, chemicals, energy and water. The prices for many of these 
major production inputs have been volatile in recent years and are 
expected to remain volatile for the foreseeable future, which may have an 
effect on the general profitability of the industries in which UPM operates. 
Climate change may contribute to the increase in the price volatility of 
UPM’s major production inputs. Also, any changes in the current forestry 
practices and level of harvesting due to negative public opinion or 
regulatory restrictions towards harvesting could have an effect on the raw 
material supply and may increase the cost of wood. 
Governmental protection and trade protection measures, amplified by 
Russia's war in Ukraine and the economic sanctions imposed as a 
response, could also have an effect on the price and availability of raw 
materials as countries may, for example, enact further export ban policies 
to protect forests or to bolster their domestic industries, which could have 
a material effect on the cost and availability of raw materials for UPM. It is 
also uncertain how EU energy policies may affect the availability and 
costs of fibre and energy. Significant increases in the prices of UPM’s 
major inputs could increase UPM’s operating expenses. 
Supplier and subcontractor network and raw materials 
procurement
UPM’s business operations depend on a large number of suppliers and 
contractors. The majority of UPM’s need for wood is covered by suppliers, 
and other production inputs, such as chemicals, fillers and recovered 
paper, are fully obtained from suppliers. Disruptions in the supply of key 
inputs or transportation services could have a significant effect on 
manufacturing operations. This could, for example, result in interruption 
or downscaling production, change in the product mix or increased costs 
resulting from price increases for critical inputs or transportation services 
as well as shifts in the availability and price of wood. Due to Russia's war in 
Ukraine, the EU has imposed bans on wood exports and imports and 
transportation operations directly applying to sourcing of wood and other 
raw materials from Russia. Supplier consolidation could also limit the 
number of suppliers from which UPM would be able to source its 
UPM FINANCIAL REPORT 2025 130
production inputs and could materially affect the prices paid by UPM for 
these inputs.
The UPM Supplier and Third-Party Code defines the minimum level of 
performance that UPM requires from its suppliers and third-party 
intermediaries. UPM carries out supplier risk assessments on, for 
example, operational, financial, quality and responsibility perspectives. 
Based on the risk assessment, selected suppliers’ activities are evaluated 
in more detail through annual surveys, supplier audits and joint 
development plans. If any non-conformities are discovered, the supplier is 
required to take corrective measures, which UPM follows up on. Some 
contracts may also be discontinued due to the seriousness of the finding 
or insufficient corrective measures. 
Management and execution of large investment projects
Investment projects in UPM’s businesses are often large and take one or 
more years to complete. Participation in large projects involves risks, such 
as cost overruns or delays, shortage of labor, financial distress of 
suppliers, or accidents as well as non-achievement of the economic 
targets set for the investment. Currently, UPM’s largest ongoing 
investment project is the construction of a new biochemicals refinery in 
Germany. This project involves the development of new business 
concepts and technologies. 
UPM is responsible for many projects in several of its countries of 
operation at any given time. All projects involve technical and operational 
risks, and projects require continuous operational planning, steering and 
supervision, quality control, input procurement, scheduling as well as 
resource and cost monitoring. Managing several projects requires that 
UPM has sufficient resources and efficient processes. Port congestion 
issues, transportation bottlenecks, accidents in transit, and rising logistics 
or construction costs, all of which could be resulting from external events 
or market conditions beyond the control of UPM, may have an effect on 
the execution or profitability of investment projects. UPM’s transformative 
biochemicals project in Germany is proceeding with commissioning and 
start-up activities, but despite efforts, there are uncertainties how quickly 
or whether the project will reach the targeted returns.
Unavailability of information systems as well as 
cybersecurity breaches 
UPM’s production and business operations depend on the availability of 
supporting information systems and network services. Unplanned 
interruptions in UPM's or a supplier's critical information system services, 
loss of critical, financial or personal data due to reasons beyond UPM’s or 
its suppliers' control, such as power cuts, geopolitically-driven service 
restrictions, software or telecommunication errors or other major 
disasters, such as fires or natural disasters, as well as user errors by 
UPM’s own personnel or suppliers, can potentially cause major damage 
to UPM’s businesses and disruptions to the continuity of operations. 
UPM’s or its suppliers' information systems may be exposed to 
various cybersecurity risks. Malicious cyber intrusion could cause leakage 
of sensitive information, violation of data privacy regulations, theft of 
intellectual property, AI-generated misinformation or disinformation, 
production outages and damage to UPM’s reputation. 
Litigation and compliance 
UPM operates globally in a large number of jurisdictions and complex 
regulatory frameworks. UPM may from time to time be involved in 
litigation and other similar proceedings or it could become subject to 
various claims and actions based on various grounds. 
On a global scale, enforcement activities and jurisdictional reach 
regarding competition issues and anti-corruption have increased. Also, 
the recent development of Renewable Energy Sources Act (EEG) related 
lawsuits in Germany for alleged non-payment of EEG based surcharges 
may have an adverse impact on UPM, albeit UPM is not currently a party 
to any such lawsuits. Russia's war in Ukraine triggered many countries to 
impose several sanctions packages which may increase the risk of 
investigations, litigations or claims associated with alleged sanctions 
violations, or retaliatory litigation in Russia. The UPM Code of Conduct 
sets the standards of responsible behavior and it covers topics relating to 
legal compliance and disclosure, anti-corruption, competition law, HR 
practices, human rights, responsible sourcing and environmental matters. 
UPM’s environmental performance and social responsibility play a 
significant role in UPM’s ability to operate and influence the long-term 
success of its businesses. UPM also measures and publishes information 
on its environmental, social and governance matters, for which there is an 
increasing risk of investigation or litigation from activists or other 
stakeholders on alleged misrepresentation. UPM has significant 
manufacturing operations or sourcing in several developing countries, 
some of which are perceived as highly corrupt or corrupt according to 
Transparency International. In these countries, there is an increased risk 
of corruption, for example in relation to interaction with government 
officials and in the use of intermediaries when applying for permits and 
licenses requiring governmental approval. Breaches of applicable laws 
and regulations or corporate policies by UPM employees may lead to 
legal processes, sanctions and fines as well as reputational damages 
effecting UPM’s operations.
Industrial actions 
UPM is subject to risk of industrial actions, which could disrupt its 
business operations or the business operations of its stakeholders. 
Uncertainty may increase in the Finnish labor market amid the 
announcement of the Finnish Forest Industries Federation in autumn 
2020 to transfer collective bargaining to companies. For example, in the 
beginning of 2022, members of the Paperworkers’ Union, the Finnish 
Electrical Workers´ Union and the Trade Union Pro started strikes at UPM 
mills in Jämsänkoski, Kouvola, Lappeenranta, Pietarsaari, Rauma, 
Tampere and Valkeakoski, Finland. Any strike or other industrial action in 
UPM’s business operations or related sectors could have an effect on 
UPM’s business operations. For example, industrial actions in the 
transportation sector or among other stakeholders important to UPM, 
may disrupt UPM’s operations. Additionally, public dissatisfaction with 
UPM’s labor-related decisions may, in extreme cases, lead to 
unanticipated boycotts or disruptions at its facilities or construction sites. 
A natural disaster, fire, accident or other major disruption 
at UPM’s production facilities 
UPM operates a significant number of production facilities globally that 
are exposed to risks related to environment, fires, natural events, 
machinery breakdowns, site security and occupational health and safety 
UPM FINANCIAL REPORT 2025 131
UPM Annual Report 2025130 131
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors 

risks. If UPM’s production facilities were to experience a major accident or 
were forced to shut down or curtail production due to such unforeseen 
events, such as a leak or spill due to malfunction or human error, this 
could cause major interruptions in UPM’s operations and result in 
significant costs in order to clean up and repair any potential damages to 
the production plant and the surrounding areas. Any failure to maintain 
high levels of safety management could also result in physical injury, 
sickness (including pandemics-related infection outbreaks) or liability to 
UPM’s employees, contractors or third parties. These risks are managed 
through established management procedures, health and safety 
precautions and loss prevention program. UPM’s insurance program 
provides coverage for insurable hazard risks, subject to insurance terms 
and conditions.
Forests and plantations
UPM’s plantations and forests may be affected by the impacts of climate 
change, which include more frequent and severe extreme weather 
conditions such as heavy rainfall, storms, floods and drought. Climate 
change is expected to have the biggest physical effect on UPM’s forest 
lands in Finland, where temperatures are expected to rise more 
significantly and rapidly compared with other countries where UPM owns 
forest. Although forest growth will likely accelerate, particularly in Finland, 
due to the longer growing season, extreme weather conditions will 
intensify, presenting new risks. The increase of droughts and forest fires 
are estimated to pose the most significant risks for UPM’s forests and 
plantations. Also, damages caused by insects and tree diseases are 
becoming increasingly common, which could have an effect on the value 
of UPM’s forest assets. Should these risks materialize, they could harm 
UPM’s forest and plantations resulting in production interruption and 
additional costs. 
Strategic partners
UPM collaborates with many partners. For example, product development 
in biofuels, bioenergy or biochemicals increases the importance of 
partnerships in the search for new products and businesses or higher 
efficiency. Partnerships may, however, create risks to UPM's profitability, 
for example, through changes occurring within the partner entity or 
changes in how the partnership operates. UPM is also subject to the risk 
that its strategic partners do not comply with UPM’s Code of Conduct 
with anti-corruption, competition law, HR practices, human rights, 
responsible sourcing and environmental matters. 
Partnership arrangements may also be too rigid to enable timely 
changes required, for example, in connection with changes in the market 
conditions or the economy. UPM’s partners may have different targets 
with respect to the business of the partnerships. As UPM may not have 
sole control over strategic direction and operational output of these 
entities, its partners may have the right to make certain decisions on key 
business matters with which UPM does not agree. In some cases, 
strategic partners may choose not to continue partnerships that they 
have with UPM. Russia's ongoing war in Ukraine, geopolitical escalations 
or trade tensions may cause adverse economic or operational conditions 
and result in financial stress or operational hardship to a strategic partner 
and trigger unexpected negotiation or other processes causing delays or 
cost increases for UPM. 
Intellectual property rights of third parties
Molecular bioproducts form one of UPM’s three strategic focus areas for 
growth. Initiatives within this strategic focus area are technology-intensive 
and require increasing investments in such technologies either through 
internal development or through third-party licenses or technological 
partnerships. In addition to UPM’s own IPR portfolio, UPM licenses certain 
technologies developed by third parties. Evaluating the rights related to 
the third-party technologies UPM uses or intends to use is increasingly 
challenging. Licensing third-party technology exposes UPM to such risks 
as the increase of overall licensing costs, loss of negotiation power, the 
validity of such licensing arrangements and potential infringement 
claims, which could restrict UPM’s ability to use certain technologies, 
prevent the delivery of UPM’s products and/or result in costly and time-
consuming litigation. Risk related to IPR claims and disputes relating to 
technological partnerships have been assessed to increase.
Building capabilities to growth areas
The success of UPM’s business largely depends on the ability to build and 
retain the necessary new capabilities required for future growth. UPM is 
continuously developing its employee experience, leadership culture, 
evaluating its recruitment, compensation policies and career 
development opportunities and taking measures to attract and retain 
diversely skilled personnel and individuals with rare and pivotal specialist 
knowledge for current and future growth areas. 
Financial risks
Financial risks are described in consolidated financial statements 2025.
Type of risk Consolidated financial statement note
Credit risk 4.6 Working capital
Liquidity and refinancing risk 5.1 Capital management
Interest rate risk 6.1 Financial risk management
Foreign exchange risk 6.1 Financial risk management
Electricity price risk 6.1 Financial risk management
Counterparty risk 6.2 Derivatives and hedge accounting
UPM FINANCIAL REPORT 2025 132
Sustainability 
Statement
UPM Annual Report 2025
132 133
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

General information
General information ESRS 2 – General disclosures 137
Basis for preparation ESRS 2 BP-1 – General basis for preparation of the Sustainability Statement 138
ESRS 2 BP-2 – Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances 138
Sustainability governance GOV-1 – The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies 139
GOV-2 – Information provided to, and sustainability matters addressed by the undertaking's administrative, 
management and supervisory bodies 142
GOV-3 – Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 142
GOV-4 – Statement on due diligence 143
GOV-5 – Risk management and internal controls over sustainability reporting 144
Strategy, business model and 
value chain SBM-1 – Strategy, business model and value chain 144
Stakeholders SBM-2 – Interest and views of stakeholders 148
Impacts, risks and opportunities SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 148
IRO-1 – Description of the processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks and opportunities 150
ESRS content overview IRO-2 - Disclosure requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking's Sustainability Statement 153
Environmental information
Climate change ESRS E1 – Climate change 155
Transition plan E1-1 – Transition plan for climate change mitigation 156
Impacts, risks and opportunities ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 158
Policies E1-2 – Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 158
Actions E1-3 – Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies 159
Targets E1-4 – Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 161
Metrics E1-5 – Energy consumption and mix 164
E1-6 – Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 165
E1-7 – GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon credits 168
E1-8 – Internal carbon pricing 169
E1-9 – Anticipated financial effects from material physical and transition risks and potential climate-related 
opportunities 169
EU Taxonomy Disclosures pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation 2020/852 170
Pollution ESRS E2 – Pollution 176
Policies E2-1 – Policies related to pollution 177
Actions E2-2 – Actions and resources related to pollution 178
Targets E2-3 – Targets related to pollution 180
Metrics E2-4 – Pollution of air, water and soil 181
E2-5 – Substances of concern and substances of very high concern 182
E2-6 – Anticipated financial effects from material pollution-related risks and opportunities 182
Table of contents List of ESRS disclosure requirements Page
UPM Financial Report 2025 134
Water and marine resources ESRS E3 – Water and marine resources 183
Policies E3-1 – Policies related to water and marine resources 184
Actions E3-2 – Actions and resources related to water and marine resources 184
Targets E3-3 – Targets related to water and marine resources 186
Metrics E3-4 – Water consumption 187
Biodiversity and ecosystems ESRS E4 – Biodiversity and ecosystems 188
Transition plan E4-1 – Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in strategy and business model 189
Impacts, risks and opportunities ESRS 2 SBM 3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 189
Policies E4-2 – Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems 190
Actions E4-3 – Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems 190
Targets E4-4 – Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems 193
Metrics E4-5 – Impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change 194
E4-6 – Anticipated financial effects from material biodiversity and ecosystem-related risks and opportunities 198
Resource use and circular economy ESRS E5 – Resource use and circular economy 199
Policies E5-1 – Policies related to resource use and circular economy 200
Actions E5-2 – Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy 201
Targets E5-3 – Targets related to resource use and circular economy 203
Metrics E5-4 – Resource inflows 204
E5-5 – Resource outflows 206
Social information
Own workforce ESRS S1 – Own workforce 208
Impacts, risks and opportunities ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 209
Policies S1-1 – Policies related to own workforce 210
Processes S1-2 – Processes for engaging with own workforce and workers' representatives about impacts 211
S1-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce to raise concerns 211
Actions S1-4 – Taking action on material impacts on own workforce, and approaches to managing material risks and 
pursuing material opportunities related to own workforce, and effectiveness of those actions 212
Targets S1-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing 
material risks and opportunities 215
Metrics S1-6 – Characteristics of the undertaking's employees 216
S1-7 – Characteristics of non-employee workers in the undertaking's own workforce 217
S1-8 – Collective bargaining coverage and social dialogue 218
S1-9 – Diversity metrics 218
S1-10 – Adequate wages 219
S1-11 – Social protection 219
S1-12 – Persons with disabilities 219
S1-13 – Training and skills development metrics 219
S1-14 – Health and safety metrics 219
S1-16 – Compensation metrics (pay gap and total compensation) 221
S1-17 – Incidents, complaints and severe human rights impacts 221
Table of contents List of ESRS disclosure requirements Page
UPM Financial Report 2025 135
UPM Annual Report 2025134 135
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Workers in the value chain ESRS S2 – Workers in the value chain 222
Impacts, risks and opportunities ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 223
Policies S2-1 – Policies related to value chain workers 224
Processes S2-2 – Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts 225
S2-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain workers to raise concerns 226
Actions S2-4 – Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers 226
Targets S2-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing positive impacts, and managing 
material risks and opportunities 228
Affected communities ESRS S3 – Affected communities 229
Impacts, risks and opportunities ESRS 2 SBM-3 – Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business model 230
Policies S3-1 – Policies related to affected communities 231
Processes S3-2 – Processes for engaging with affected communities about impacts 232
S3-3 – Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for affected communities to raise concerns 232
Actions S3-4 – Taking action on material impacts on affected communities 233
Targets S3-5 – Targets related to managing material negative impacts and advancing positive impacts 235
Governance information
Business conduct ESRS G1 – Business conduct 236
Policies G1-1 – Business conduct policies and corporate culture 237
Responsible sourcing G1-2 – Management of relationships with suppliers 239
Anti-corruption and bribery G1-3 – Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery 242
Metrics G1-4 – Incidents of corruption or bribery 244
G1-5 – Political influence and lobbying activities 244
G1-6 – Payment practices 245
Other sustainability reporting 
standards and frameworks
IFRS S1 and S2 Sustainability Disclosure Standards by the ISSB (International Sustainability Standards Board) 246
TCFD Disclosures according to TCFD (Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures) 248
TNFD Disclosures according to TNFD (Task Force on Nature-related Financial Disclosures) 249
Table of contents List of ESRS disclosure requirements Page
UPM Financial Report 2025 136
General information (ESRS 2)
UPM is committed to creating value for its customers by using sustainable, renewable feedstocks, reducing its 
environmental footprint and enhancing its positive societal impact.
UPM updated its Code of 
Conduct in accordance 
with its three-year update 
plan.
Double materiality 
assessment reviewed
The first commercial 
products from the UPM 
Biorefinery in Leuna 
(December 2025) 
UPM Financial Report 2025 137
UPM Annual Report 2025136 137
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

 Basis for preparation
ESRS 2 BP-1
This Sustainability Statement has been prepared in accordance with the 
EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) and the 
underlying European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS). 
Scope of consolidation
This Sustainability Statement has been prepared on a consolidated basis. 
All UPM subsidiaries, joint ventures, and associates that are fully 
consolidated or proportionately consolidated are included in the 
Sustainability Statement. In the double materiality assessment (DMA), the 
entire value chain is in the scope of assessment and consolidation of 
information for material impacts, risks, and opportunities.
The primary subsidiaries and joint operations included in UPM's 
financial reporting are listed in the Annual Report. Refer to » Note 8.2 
Principal subsidiaries and joint operations in the consolidated financial 
statements. In financial reporting, UPM consolidates acquired entities 
from the acquisition date, which is when UPM gains control.
For social disclosures, the same list of subsidiaries, including any non-
controlling interests, is relevant unless otherwise stated in connection with 
the respective disclosure. In the case of acquisitions and divestments, the 
approach to social data disclosure may vary and is detailed within the 
relevant context.
For environmental disclosures, the consolidated data covers the 
production units and forestry operations of the main subsidiaries. All 
production units are included unless otherwise stated in the context of the 
relevant disclosure. An overview of production units is available on pages 
8-9 of the Annual Report. For jointly operated on-site power plants, UPM 
includes fuel, air emissions and waste data corresponding to UPM's energy 
supply. Environmental investments include the share corresponding to 
UPM's ownership of the on-site power plant. For divestments or acquisitions, 
environmental data is included from the month of acquisition or until the 
month of divestment, provided the production unit has been part of UPM for 
more than half the year. For new production units under construction, 
environmental data is considered from the start of production. As the 
production and sales of the first commercial products started mid 
December 2025, the Leuna biorefinery will be included in the environmental 
data from January 2026 onwards.
Figures presented in this Sustainability Statement are rounded, and 
therefore the sum of individual figures might deviate from the total figure 
presented.
In 2025, UPM Communication Papers permanently closed its Kaukas 
paper mill in Finland and its Ettringen paper mill in Germany. UPM 
Adhesive Materials transferred production from the Kaltenkirchen site in 
Germany to other European sites and decided to convert the Nancy 
factory in France into a slitting and distribution terminal in 2026. As part 
of a long-term strategic partnership, UPM Fibres sold its Korkeakoski 
sawmill in Finland to Versowood, receiving a minority shareholding in the 
company in return. In 2025, UPM also exited the biomedical business. The 
environmental data of these sites is included in the consolidated data 
until the end of production. In February 2025, UPM Adhesive Materials 
acquired Metamark, a UK-based company with a manufacturing site in 
Lancaster. This site is included in the environmental disclosure from 
January 2025. For the social data, information regarding exclusions is 
provided with the relevant disclosures.
No information relating to intellectual property, know-how or the 
results of innovation has been omitted from the Sustainability Statement. 
No exemptions have been used for disclosure of impending 
developments or matters in negotiation. 
Coverage of the value chain
The sustainability information disclosed is based on UPM's double 
materiality assessment (DMA) of impacts, risks and opportunities, which 
covers both the upstream and downstream value chain. The policies, 
actions and targets also cover aspects of the whole value chain, 
depending on the relevance of the aspect in the different parts of the 
value chain.
ESRS standard S4 “Consumers and end-users” is omitted from UPM's 
disclosure. The majority of UPM's products are further processed by 
UPM's customers and, consequently, UPM does not have direct control of 
the products provided to consumers and end-users. Therefore, based on 
the DMA, UPM's impact on consumers and end-users is not considered 
material. Customer-related aspects such as product safety, ecolabels or 
product-related aspects like carbon storage in products are covered by 
other standards where appropriate.
ESRS 2 BP-2
ESRS 2 BP-2
Information about time horizon, estimation 
and reporting errors in previous periods
The reporting period covered by the Sustainability Statement is the same 
as in the Financial Statements. 
For information on time horizon, refer to » ESRS 2, SBM-3, Material 
impacts, risks and opportunities
For information on value chain estimation, refer to » E1-6, Reporting 
principles for metrics, Scope 3
In case estimations have been used, in case there are uncertainties 
related to the metrics disclosed or in case of errors in the previous year’s 
reporting, this is disclosed in the context of the relevant disclosure. 
Changes in the preparation of 
sustainability information
For the reporting year 2025, UPM reports its sustainability information for 
the second time in accordance with the requirements from the European 
Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS). The content of the Sustainability 
Statement has been subject to a limited assurance engagement. Scope 1 
and 2 emissions have been subject to reasonable assurance. The assurance 
reports can be found from page 350 onward.. 
This Sustainability Statement covers disclosures according to the 
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TCFD), the Task 
UPM Financial Report 2025 138
Force on Nature-related Financial Disclosure (TNFD), and the ISSB’s two 
sustainability disclosure standards IFRS S1 (General Requirements for 
Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information) and S2 
(Climate-related Disclosures). The respective alignment indices are 
published at the end of this Sustainability Statement.
Information on how UPM reports on sustainability reporting standards 
of the Global Reporting Initiative, is available on the UPM webpage. 
Incorporation by reference
The following information is incorporated by reference:
• ESRS 2 SBM-1: Employees by geographical area
• E1-9: Anticipated financial effects from physical and transition risk and 
potential climate-related opportunities
• E4-6: Anticipated financial effects from material biodiversity risk and 
opportunities 
Sustainability governance
GOV-1
UPM has a one-tier governance model consisting of the Board of 
Directors and the President and CEO, in addition to the Annual General 
Meeting of shareholders. All nine members of the Board of Directors are 
non-executive. 
To enhance the Board's decision-making process, the Board has 
established three committees composed of its members: the Audit 
Committee; the Remuneration Committee; and the Nomination and 
Governance Committee.
The President and CEO of UPM-Kymmene Corporation leads the day-
to-day operations of the company in accordance with the instructions 
and orders given by the Board of Directors. In the operational 
management of the company, the President and CEO is assisted by the 
Group Executive Team (GET), consisting of the executives heading the 
business areas and global functions, and by the Business Area Boards 
and the Strategy Team. The President and CEO chairs the GET, the 
Business Area Boards and the Strategy Team.
UPM's Board of Directors does not include any representatives of the 
employees.
Experience and expertise in sustainability 
and business conduct matters
Members of the Board of Directors and the President and CEO have 
versatile experience and skills in the field of sustainability, for example in 
climate change, biodiversity, human rights, supply chain management, 
stakeholder engagement and ESG in general. In addition, the President 
and CEO has access to UPM's resources regarding these skills.  
The Board members and the President and CEO have experience 
from all sectors and products relevant to UPM such as pulp and paper, 
packaging, adhesive materials (self-adhesive products, film products and 
graphic solutions), forestry, energy, chemicals, biofuels, R&D as well as 
finance and accounting. In addition, UPM Board members and the 
President and CEO have experience from all geographies relevant to 
UPM, i.e. Europe, Middle East, Asia and Americas. They also have 
experience in the field of business conduct matters relevant to UPM.  
The experience of the Board of Directors as described above, as well 
as the experience of the President and CEO from his previous positions in 
UPM, provides the relevant skills and expertise in UPM's operations and 
business model and the related impacts, risks and opportunities. In 
addition, the Board of Directors and the President and CEO are provided 
with information on relevant and topical sustainability issues, both 
regularly and as required.
Board diversity
UPM's Board of Directors comprises five nationalities (Finnish, Norwegian, 
Dutch, German, Swiss). The ages of the Board members vary between 50 
and 67 years. 33% of the Board members have been members of the 
Board for 1-4 years, 33% have been members of the Board for 5-9 years 
and 33% have been members of the Board for 10 years or more. All Board 
members hold a university degree. When it comes to gender, 44% (4/9) of 
UPM Board members are female and 56% are male. The President and 
CEO is an Italian citizen, born in 1969, holds a Master of Science 
(engineering) degree and his gender is male.
The overall aim of diversity is to ensure that the Board has a broad 
range of skills, experience and perspectives, as well as knowledge of UPM 
and other relevant industries, so that the Board can effectively carry out 
its responsibilities, particularly those related to strategy and risk 
management. The Board’s objective is to include an appropriate number 
of directors of different nationalities, ages, genders, and length of service. 
The Board's diversity principles are included in the Board and 
Committee Charters and, more specifically, in the Board's Diversity 
Policy. See » upm.com/governance.
More information about the diversity of UPM's Board of Directors, 
related objectives and the results is available in the Corporate 
Governance Statement 2025. See » upm.com/governance. 
Board independence
100% of the Board members are independent of the company and the 
company's significant shareholders as assessed by the Board with the 
assistance of the Nomination and Governance Committee. 
All Board members are independent of the company's significant 
shareholders, as the company has no controlling shareholder, and no 
shareholder of the company has announced a holding of 10% or more of 
the company's shares or votes. The Board has also concluded that all 
directors, including Henrik Ehrnrooth, Piia-Noora Kauppi and Kim Wahl, 
who have been non-executive directors of the company for ten 
consecutive years or more, are independent of the company. Based on 
the Board's overall evaluation of the independence of these directors, their 
long-standing service does not compromise their independence, and no 
other factors or circumstances have been identified that could affect their 
independence. 
UPM Financial Report 2025 139
UPM Annual Report 2025138 139
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Oversight and management of impacts, 
risks and opportunities
Board of Directors
The Board of Directors approves the company strategy in the annual 
strategy session, oversees the Impact, Risk, and Opportunity (IRO) 
management with the assistance of the Board committees, and oversees 
the double materiality assessment (DMA) process with the assistance of the 
Audit Committee. The Board proposes the Remuneration Policy for adoption 
at the Annual General Meeting (AGM), approves the UPM Code of Conduct 
and UPM Group Policies in accordance with the policy management 
structure. It also approves the appointments and remuneration of members 
of the Group Executive Team and some senior management 
representatives, approves Group-level sustainability targets for the 
remuneration of members of the Group Executive Team and some senior 
management representatives, oversees key Group-level actions related to 
strategy implementation and progress against key Group-level sustainability 
targets, and oversees the independence of the Board.
Nomination and Governance Committee
The Nomination and Governance Committee regularly reviews 
governance matters and assesses how these interact with the strategy 
and business model. It prepares the Diversity Policy of the Board of 
Directors for Board approval and oversees its implementation, reviews the 
structure, size, composition, diversity, and successional need of the Board 
as a whole and prepares proposals to the Annual General Meeting (AGM) 
for director elections, and their remuneration. The committee also 
prepares the succession plan and appointment of the President and CEO, 
and oversees Board skills and expertise in sustainability and business 
conduct matters.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee regularly reviews material sustainability topics 
(IROs) and assesses how they interact with the strategy and business 
model. It assists the Board in the oversight of the DMA process, monitors 
compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements, the UPM 
Code of Conduct, and other corporate policies, monitors and assesses 
the effectiveness of internal controls and audit, as well as risk 
management, regularly reviews assurance matters, including risk 
management, internal controls, compliance, internal and external audits, 
and regularly reviews sustainability matters and information in the report 
of the Board of Directors including the statutory Sustainability Statement. 
In addition to undertaking the assigned matters and regular reports listed 
above, the Audit Committee also reviewed reports on and discussed ESG 
and cybersecurity, reviewed the Disclosure Policy amendment and the 
share buyback program conducted in 2025. The Board is informed, as 
part of the Audit Committee Chair’s regular reporting to the Board, of any 
submissions received by the Committee from stakeholders that have a 
material impact on the economy, the environment or people.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee regularly reviews selected material social 
sustainability topics (IROs) related to the company's own workforce and 
assesses how they interact with the strategy and business model. It 
regularly reviews how remuneration is linked to material sustainability 
topics (IROs), prepares the Remuneration Policy for adoption at the AGM, 
oversees procedures related to executive remuneration, reviews and 
recommends sustainability targets in executive remuneration for Board 
approval, and regularly reviews executive performance against 
remuneration-related sustainability targets and prepares proposals for 
payout.
Reflection of responsibilities in charters and 
policies
Charter of the Board of Directors
The Board’s responsibilities, outlined in the Charter of the Board of 
Directors, include strategic oversight, risk management, compliance and 
governance. Additionally, the Board monitors and assesses the 
company's financial reporting and the statutory sustainability reporting 
processes, ensuring the integrity of their reporting. The Board also 
oversees the assessment and management of risks related to the 
company's strategy and operations, including material sustainability 
risks. It monitors the company's audit and assurance related to statutory 
sustainability reporting and assesses the performance and independence 
of the sustainability report assurer.
Charter of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee assists the Board in overseeing financial reporting, 
statutory sustainability reporting, internal control, internal audit and risk 
management. The Committee's responsibilities are detailed in the Charter 
of the Audit Committee.
Charter of the Nomination and Governance Committee
The Nomination and Governance Committee is responsible for identifying 
individuals qualified to serve as the President and CEO and for identifying 
candidates for election or re-election to the Board. The Committee also 
develops and recommends to the Board a set of corporate governance 
principles and reviews overall corporate governance of the company. 
These responsibilities are outlined in the Charter of the Nomination and 
Governance Committee.
Charter of the Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee assists the Board with responsibilities 
related to the preparation of the company's remuneration principles and 
practices, including remuneration schemes and plans. The Committee's 
responsibilities are detailed in the Charter of the Remuneration Committee.
Policies 
The UPM Code of Conduct sets out the principles that help UPM 
employees make ethical  decisions and maintain high standards of 
integrity in UPM's daily operations. It applies to all UPM employees 
globally and serves as the basis for the company's corporate 
responsibility and compliance programs, policies, and procedures. 
Additionally, various Group policies outline specific responsibilities and 
procedures for managing risks and ensuring compliance with legal and 
regulatory requirements. These policies provide guidance on, for example, 
anti-corruption, risk management, and stakeholder engagement. The 
UPM Sustainability Policy Statement ensures that risks and impacts on 
people and the environment are considered throughout UPM's 
UPM Financial Report 2025 140
operations. It requires UPM's businesses and functions to perform 
sustainability-related due diligence, conducting regular assessments of 
their impacts, and prioritizing the most severe issues for further focus and 
action. It also defines the double materiality assessment (DMA) process 
to be carried out regularly to assess UPM's sustainability-related impacts, 
risks and opportunities. Refer to » G1-1 Policies
Management's role in sustainability
UPM's governance structure 
Group Executive Team
The Group Executive Team (GET), led by the President and CEO, is 
responsible for managing sustainability, determining course of action and 
guiding development. The GET is responsible for managing impacts, risks 
and opportunities at Group level and approves the Group's double 
materiality assessment, the sustainability focus areas, targets and key 
performance indicators, sustainability actions and sustainability-related 
policies and rules. The President and CEO reports to the Board on 
relevant decisions and progress. 
Strategy Team
Among other matters, the Strategy Team assists the President and CEO 
in integrating sustainability into the Group's strategy for the Boards' 
approval. The Strategy Team prepares proposals for updating UPM's 
strategy and strategic plans and is responsible for identifying and 
managing UPM's key strategic risks.
Businesses and functions
The role of the Business Area Boards is to make decisions at the business 
area level on, among other things, sustainability issues and to oversee the 
implementation of Group-level policies, rules, guidelines and procedures 
in the business area. In practice, sustainability efforts, including managing 
impacts, risks and opportunities, implementing targets and actions, 
reporting on progress and compliance status, and contributing to the 
double materiality assessment, take place in businesses and functions. 
Compliance controls and procedures 
As part of the Audit Committee’s compliance review, the Committee 
receives a quarterly report from the company's Chief Compliance Officer 
and a report from the SVP of Internal Audit on the submissions made 
through the UPM Report Misconduct channel. With the support of UPM's 
Compliance Team, each business area, function and unit is responsible 
for identifying and managing compliance risks related to its own 
UPM Financial Report 2025 141
UPM Annual Report 2025140 141
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

operations. The results of annual risk assessments are used to guide 
compliance activities and risk mitigation actions in businesses and 
functions. Together, the Compliance Team and the businesses update 
compliance risk assessments and mitigation actions throughout the year 
to respond to changes in the risk environment. Progress on mitigation 
actions is reported to the Audit Committee and businesses on a quarterly 
basis.
Leadership in responsible business conduct
The UPM Code of Conduct underlines UPM's commitment to business 
integrity and responsible business operations and reflects the company's 
guiding principles. The UPM Code of Conduct is approved by the Board of 
Directors as UPM's highest governance body. It is complemented by more 
detailed policy statements, policies and rules approved by the Board of 
Directors, the Group Executive Team, business areas, or global functions.
The UPM Code of Conduct and UPM's values help UPM's employees 
to make the right choices and guide UPM's work in a changing business 
environment. This lays the foundations for long-term success. UPM 
strives to ensure compliance with the Code of Conduct, policies and rules 
by implementing a company-wide compliance program through the UPM 
compliance system. The compliance system is embedded in the 
company's governance model and is designed to bolster company 
performance and a culture of integrity at all levels. The Audit Committee 
receives a quarterly compliance report from the company's Chief 
Compliance Officer.
Information provided and sustainability 
matters addressed by the Board of 
Directors and the President and CEO
GOV-2
The President and CEO, or other members of executive management, 
reports to the Board or its committees at least annually on decisions and 
progress made related to risks, impacts and opportunities, and their 
management, as well as on targets and actions. In addition, the Audit 
Committee receives a quarterly compliance report. Refer to paragraph 
» Compliance controls and procedures
The President and CEO chairs the Group Executive Team, the Strategy 
Team and the Business Area Boards and receives regular and detailed 
information about the relevant sustainability matters at their meetings.
Sustainability is integrated into the company strategy and UPM's goal 
is to ensure that sustainability-related aspects are taken into account in 
strategic decision-making. UPM's Strategy Team prepares proposals for 
updating UPM's strategy and strategic plans and is responsible for 
identifying and managing UPM's key strategic risks.
In 2025, the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee oversaw the 
company's key sustainability focus areas and targets, the company's 
double materiality assessment process and the management of material 
sustainability impacts, risks and opportunities. When reviewing the 
Sustainability Statement draft they addressed material impacts, risks and 
opportunities covered by the disclosure. 
The Remuneration Committee conducted an annual review of 
selected material social sustainability topics related to UPM workforce in 
their December meeting. 
The GET approved in their December meeting the outcome of the 
double materiality assessment (DMA) and reviewed sustainability focus 
areas and targets.
Integration of sustainability-related 
performance in incentive schemes
GOV-3
Since 2022, the Board of Directors has included measures related to 
environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues in the company's 
Performance Share Plan (PSP), one of UPM's long-term incentive plans. 
The PSP is targeted at the President and CEO, the Group Executive Team 
and other selected members of senior management. The remuneration of 
the Board of Directors and its committees is resolved by the Annual 
General Meeting. The members of the Board of Directors do not belong to 
the company's short- or long-term incentive plans, and their 
remuneration is not linked to sustainability.
The PSP consists of annually commencing individual plans approved 
by the Board with a minimum performance period of three years. The 
performance measures, related targets and weightings are set annually 
by the Board for each commencing plan and can vary from plan to plan 
to promote the company's long-term value creation and financial growth 
without encouraging excessive risk-taking. Measures may include among 
the others financial, share price, and sustainability targets.
For the PSP 2023–2025, PSP 2024–2026, and PSP 2025-2027, the 
Board has set absolute total shareholder return (TSR) as a performance 
measure, and the weighting of this measure accounted for 80% of all 
measures. The Board has also set up three separate ESG performance 
measures and the total weighting of these measures accounted for 20% 
of all measures. Two of the ESG performance measures are 
environmental: reducing fossil CO2 emissions from UPM's on-site 
combustion and purchased energy by 65% by 2030 from the 2015 level 
(10% weighting); and achieving a net positive impact on biodiversity in 
UPM's own forests in Finland (5% weighting). The third ESG performance 
measure is a social measure: achieving gender pay equity (5% weighting). 
The ESG performance measures are based on UPM's sustainability 
targets for 2030. 
These sustainability performance measures are covered by UPM's 
Remuneration Policy in the case of the President and CEO.
The Board of Directors annually approves the commencement of new 
long-term incentive plans within the company's long-term share incentive 
arrangements, including the terms and conditions, performance 
measures, related targets, and weightings.   
UPM Financial Report 2025 142
Sustainability due diligence
GOV-4
The mapping in this table covers the core elements of a due diligence 
process in accordance with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and 
Human Rights and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, as 
well as the main processes and measures of UPM's sustainability due 
diligence. Details are described in the relevant disclosures of this 
Sustainability Statement. 
Core elements of due diligence UPM's main due diligence processes and measures Paragraphs in this sustainability statement
Embedding due diligence in governance, 
strategy and business model
• Implementation of policy documents to ensure integration 
throughout UPM and its value chain
G1-1 Policies
S1-1 Policies
E2-1 Policies
Engaging with affected stakeholders in all 
key steps of due diligence
• Stakeholder dialogue ESRS2-SBM2 Interest and views of stakeholders
S1-2 Processes for workforce engagement
S2-2 Processes for engaging with value chain workers
S3-2 Processes for engaging with communities
Identifying and assessing adverse 
impacts
• Business-area-specific human rights risk assessments and 
integration into management systems, as feasible
• High sustainability risk supplier process and enhanced due 
diligence assessment
• 24/7 counterparty screening
• Environmental and social/human rights impact assessments
• Corporate human rights saliency assessment
ESRS2-SBM3 Impacts, risks and opportunities
S2-SBM3  Impacts, risks and opportunities
S3-SBM3  Impacts, risks and opportunities
G1-3 Anti-corruption and bribery
Taking actions to address these adverse 
impacts
• Supplier and Third-Party Code and contractual requirements
• Commodity-specific supplier requirements
• Forest certification
• EcoVadis assessments, contractor reviews and supplier audits
• ISO-certified management systems
• UPM Clean Run process
• Remediation where appropriate
G1-2 Responsible sourcing 
E2-2 Actions - UPM Clean Run concept
S2-4 Actions
Tracking the effectiveness and progress 
of these efforts
• UPM's compliance system
• Human rights workshops in business areas
• UPM Report Misconduct channel and other local grievance 
channels
G1-1 Reporting and identifying concerns, Investigating 
concerns and incident handling
G1-3 Risk assessments, Monitoring, Investigation
S1-1 UPM and human rights
Communicating these efforts • UPM Annual Report
• EMAS reports from UPM's pulp and paper mills
• UPM Human rights review report 
• UPM Forestal Oriental Annual Report
See pdf at hand for UPM Annual Report;
See » upm.com for other reports 
UPM Financial Report 2025 143
UPM Annual Report 2025142 143
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Risk management for sustainability 
reporting
GOV-5
UPM's sustainability reporting at the Group level is based on its 
sustainability reporting guidelines and the requirements of the ESRS. 
To improve the reliability of sustainability data, UPM utilizes internal 
controls tailored to its specific sustainability risks with a focus on 
materiality. Development of internal controls for sustainability reporting 
progressed in collaboration with the Internal Control team within the 
Finance & Control function. The initial phase focused on adapting the 
structure and documentation to reflect the principles of the financial 
internal control framework, identifying key risks, and developing controls 
to address them. UPM continues to improve its internal control 
framework to minimize potential risks further. 
UPM's centralized approach to sustainability reporting at Group level 
allows a review of the input of quantitative and qualitative information and 
to identify inconsistencies or errors in the data submitted by functions, 
production sites, and forestry operations. 
UPM integrates its Sustainability Statement into the disclosure 
management tool used by UPM Finance, ensuring a streamlined 
approach to data management. The required data is collected from 
various sources such as the environmental database, the OHS reporting 
tool, and the human resources data tool. UPM is committed to 
continuously improving its sustainability reporting processes. Feedback 
from stakeholders, internal audits, and the external assurance provider is 
used to identify areas of enhancement, which are then integrated into the 
company's risk management and reporting practices. Prioritization is 
based on the severity and likelihood of the identified risk, as well as the 
resources needed to implement the necessary actions.
The main risks identified for sustainability reporting are related to the 
accuracy of information, immature measurement methodologies and, in 
the case of missing information, the credibility of estimates.
The contributors to the sustainability reporting process from 
businesses and functions are informed of the findings and observations 
from the annual assurance process and internal controls. They contribute 
to the assessment of risk, possible actions, and their prioritization as 
appropriate.
The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors receives quarterly 
compliance reports that include information about Group-level 
sustainability reporting matters. UPM's governance structure ensures 
appropriate oversight of sustainability reporting at all levels of the 
organization. The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the 
integrity of sustainability disclosures, the controls and processes needed 
to consistently generate them, and related assurance.
Strategy, business model and value chain
SBM-1
This is UPM
UPM offers renewable alternatives to the fossil-based materials used in 
everyday life. UPM's broad product range includes pulp, graphic and 
specialty papers, self-adhesive labels, renewable wood-based 
biochemicals, diesel and naphtha, CO2-free electricity, plywood, and 
timber products. Many of UPM's products offer sustainable alternatives to 
fossil raw materials and energy. For example, they replace fossil plastics 
in consumer products, steel and cement in construction, and fossil fuels 
in transportation, aviation, and electricity markets.
UPM's products are used for packaging, communication, labeling, 
transportation, construction, manufacturing of bioplastics. as well as for 
tissue and hygiene products.
UPM has invested in a biorefinery in Leuna in Germany, which will 
produce wood-based biochemicals. The industrial-scale biorefinery will 
convert solid wood into next-generation biochemicals: bio-monoethylene 
glycol (BioMEG) and renewable functional fillers (RFF). In addition, the 
biorefinery will produce bio-monopropylene glycol (BioMPG) and 
industrial sugars. The start-up of the Leuna biorefinery progressed in 2025 
and the first commercial deliveries of industrial sugars took place in Q4 
2025. Production and sales of further products, lignin, renewable 
functional fillers and finally glycols is expected to start in 2026.
In 2025, UPM Communication Papers permanently closed its Kaukas 
paper mill in Finland and its Ettringen paper mill in Germany. UPM 
Adhesive Materials transferred production from the Kaltenkirchen site in 
Germany to other European sites and decided to convert the Nancy 
factory in France into a slitting and distribution terminal in 2026. As part 
of a long-term strategic partnership, UPM Fibres sold its Korkeakoski 
sawmill in Finland to Versowood. In 2025, UPM also exited the biomedical 
business. 
In February 2025, UPM Adhesive Materials acquired Metamark, a UK-
based company with a manufacturing site in Lancaster. 
At the end of  2025, UPM employed 15,127 people, most of whom were 
based in Europe. Refer to » S1-6 for information on headcount by country 
and by region.
There were no banned UPM products or services in 2025. 
UPM does not have significant revenues from fossil fuel-based energy 
generation. However, a small amount of fossil fuels is associated with joint 
energy generation. 99% of UPM Energy's generation is CO2-free.
Refer to » Report of the Board of Directors, starting on page 124 for more 
information about UPM's business areas and other operations.
UPM Financial Report 2025 144
UPM's strategy
UPM  plans to increase its growth focus through streamlined business 
portfolio. In late 2025, UPM announced two strategic portfolio projects: the 
intended graphic paper Joint Venture between UPM and Sappi and the 
strategic review of UPM Plywood. 
Assuming the Joint Venture is formed, UPM would have a stronger 
growth profile, improved margins, and lower leverage.  This would mark 
the beginning of a new era in the company's transformation.
Assuming the Joint Venture is formed, the future UPM would have an 
attractive business portfolio focused on renewable fibres, advanced 
materials, and decarbonization solutions, all of which operate in growing 
markets. 
Strategic portfolio projects expected to conclude in 2026
Through the graphic paper Joint Venture, UPM aims to position the UPM 
Communication Papers business to create continued value for its 
customers in a way that benefits UPM shareholders. The intended Joint 
Venture is expected to close by the end of 2026, subject to regulatory 
approvals and other closing conditions. 
UPM Plywood is currently undergoing a strategic review to assess 
options for maximizing the long-term potential and value creation of the 
business. The review is expected to be concluded by the end of 2026.
UPM acts on three fronts
In addition to the strategic portfolio projects mentioned, UPM will further 
improve competitiveness, increase capital efficiency, and strengthen the 
balance sheet. UPM will capture focused growth opportunities. Following 
recent investments, UPM has a strong asset base to capture market 
growth opportunities in a capital-efficient way. UPM aims to develop a 
portfolio of world-class businesses.
1) Improve competitiveness
• Improve performance through cost efficiency, streamlining and 
commercial excellence
• Increase capital efficiency and cash flow following recent investments
• Strengthen the balance sheet
2) Focused growth
• Strong asset base enables growth with low investment needs 
• Growth markets and faster-growing geographies
• Competitive production platforms
3) World-class businesses
• Portfolio of leading businesses in growing markets 
• World-class performance in each business 
• Planned graphic paper Joint Venture 
• Strategic review of UPM Plywood 
Refer to Report of the Board of Directors, section » Research and 
Development, for examples of how sustainability is integrated into UPM's 
research and development.
Strategy in action 
Key enablers
People
UPM focuses on performance, engagement, safety, and integrity. Diversity 
and inclusion, learning, responsible leadership, and respect are at the core 
of the work. UPM aims for sustained excellence and continuous 
professional growth. 
Productivity
UPM uses advanced technologies, sustainable practices, and strategic 
initiatives to improve efficiency and productivity. This ensures 
competitiveness of the businesses and supports UPM's growth ambitions.
Commercial excellence
UPM optimizes commercial interfaces and processes to ensure supply 
security and enhance the customer experience. This supports the 
company's ongoing efforts to sustain and grow earnings. 
Sustainability
The UPM Code of Conduct underlines the  commitment to integrity and 
responsible operations. UPM creates value from renewable and recyclable 
materials, reduces its environmental footprint, and enhances its positive 
societal impact.
Innovation
Sustainability, the circular economy, and the customers are at the heart 
of UPM's innovation. UPM innovates new materials and solutions to help  
customers’ businesses become more sustainable. UPM innovates to 
make its operations and processes more efficient and also to increase  
employees’ productivity.  
UPM Financial Report 2025 145
UPM Annual Report 2025144 145
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Business model and value chain
Business model and value chain
*The estimate includes the use of paper, plywood, timber, and part of the pulp.
Suppliers
UPM sources its main raw materials, wood and wood-based materials, 
from sustainably managed forests and transforms them into renewable 
products that help customers achieve their sustainability goals. 
Responsible and ethical practices create long-term value for the 
company and its stakeholders. UPM does not compromise its standards 
of integrity in any circumstances and expects the same from its suppliers 
and third-party intermediaries. 
Suppliers are an integral part of UPM's value chain. The main sourcing 
categories are fibre, chemicals, other raw materials, logistics, energy, and 
indirect purchases such as services. Pulp and energy suppliers account 
for the largest expenditures. 
The most important priorities when selecting suppliers include reliable 
long-term deliveries, cost-competitiveness, product and service quality, 
suppliers' financial stability, social and environmental responsibility, 
product safety, and the product’s carbon footprint.
Suppliers also play an important role in UPM's business-specific 
growth projects. With the required competencies and digitalization, 
supplier management boosts product development and the 
commercialization of new products. 
UPM Financial Report 2025 146
UPM buys products, materials, and services from some 17,000 B2B 
suppliers worldwide. The sourcing network includes suppliers from startup 
companies to international corporations. UPM also buys wood from 
around 13,000 private forest owners. 
Product stewardship 
UPM is actively developing solutions that consider the sustainability of the 
whole product life cycle, from raw material sourcing to circularity. Based 
on the material topics identified by UPM, product stewardship has been 
established as a focus area with company-wide 2030 sustainability  
targets and key performance indicators. 
Refer to » E5-3 Resource use and circular economy, Targets
UPM ensures that its products are safe for their intended use. Most of 
UPM's products are certified with widely recognized international and 
regional ecolabels such as the EU Ecolabel. All UPM businesses that use 
wood have FSC™ and/or PEFC chain-of-custody certification. This 
verifies the origin of wood and guarantees that all wood used in UPM's 
products is legally harvested from sustainably managed forests and does 
not originate from controversial sources. UPM Biofuels has both ISCC EU 
and ISCC PLUS certifications, and UPM Biochemicals and four UPM 
Adhesive Materials factories have ISCC PLUS certification. 
These sustainability-related targets and commitments cover all UPM 
products, markets and customer groups, and they are implemented 
based on legal requirements and expectations from customers and other 
stakeholders.
Products and customers
UPM sells products directly and through distributors to approximately 
10,000 b2b customers worldwide. Most of the products are intermediary 
products that UPM's customers or their customers further process into 
final products. UPM captures the opportunities presented by growing 
consumer demand for sustainable choices and stricter regulations aimed 
at mitigating climate change and related to plastic use, for example.  
With higher living standards and an aging population, a growing 
number of urban, middle-class people are consuming more over a longer 
period. At the same time, the world still depends heavily on fossil-based 
raw materials and energy sources that cause climate change. 
Consumers, businesses, and regulators alike are seeking solutions that 
enable a more sustainable way of life. UPM's offering meets these 
challenges and opportunities today and in the future. 
In 2025, the main destination countries for UPM's sales were Finland, 
Germany, the United States, and China. The majority of UPM's revenue 
came from sales of graphic and specialty papers to publishers, retailers, 
printing houses, merchants and distributors, converters and label stock 
manufacturers; sales of self-adhesive label materials to label printers and 
brand owners and sales of pulp products to tissue, board, specialty and 
graphic paper producers. Refer to » Note 2.1 Business areas in the 
consolidated financial statements for information on sales by destination 
country and » Note 2.2 Sales for information on external sales by major 
products.
UPM's solutions for different industries
• Packaging and labeling: biochemicals for plastic packaging, packaging 
papers, paper for label materials, label materials, pulp for packaging 
and labeling
• Tissue and hygiene: pulp for tissue, fluff pulp for hygiene products
• Automotive and transportation: renewable fuels, renewable naphtha, 
renewable functional fillers for rubber, renewable glycols, self-adhesive 
automotive films, LNG shipbuilding, vehicle flooring
• Printing and publishing: magazines and books, newspapers, advertising 
and catalogues, envelopes, home and office papers, pulp for printing
• Low-emission energy: CO2-free electricity, renewable energy
• Construction: building and construction, concrete forming, interior and 
exterior design, furniture
• Apparel and textiles: renewable naphtha, bio-based monoethylene 
glycols (BioMEG)
• Graphic solutions: large format printing media, protective lamination, 
screen and UV offset films, sign-making films, vehicle wrapping films, 
decoration films, PVC-free graphics solutions materials, CCK release 
base papers
Engagement with customers 
UPM's businesses offer a wide range of products and services. Each 
business has its own customer relationship management process and 
way of interacting with customers. A comprehensive understanding of 
each market, as well as knowledge of the end uses of the products and 
the needs of the customers, underpins this approach.
UPM maintains continuous dialogue with customers, and engages in 
various product-related development projects with them. UPM's businesses 
conduct regular customer satisfaction surveys. The surveys help identify 
potential areas of improvement. In 2025, actions to mitigate climate 
change remained a high priority for UPM's customers. Product safety, 
sustainable forest management, biodiversity, circularity and ecolabels are 
also highly valued. 
Refer to » SBM-2 Interest and views of stakeholders
UPM Financial Report 2025 147
UPM Annual Report 2025146 147
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Interest and views of 
stakeholders
SBM-2
Understanding the views and expectations of stakeholders is crucial to 
UPM's success and the acceptance of its operations. UPM aims to 
provide stakeholders with a clear picture of its future direction, strategy  
implementation, and creation of long-term value for stakeholders. UPM 
discloses relevant and accurate information in accordance with market 
regulations. As many stakeholders primarily see UPM as an economic 
operator, the main topics of discussion were financial success, stability, 
good governance, outlook and growth. Many discussions also focused on 
forests and forest use.
Stakeholder mapping, active dialogue, and the systematic collection 
of feedback play an important role in UPM's stakeholder relations work. 
UPM carefully analyzes feedback to understand stakeholder 
expectations. These expectations are taken into account in development 
work and decision-making. 
UPM's strategy forms the foundation of its stakeholder dialogue. 
Focus areas and activities vary locally and according to stakeholder 
needs. Key stakeholders are defined based on materiality: UPM's 
operations have a significant impact on stakeholders and vice versa.
Stakeholder relations are led and coordinated globally by the UPM 
Marketing, Sustainability and Communications function. The EVP of this 
function has the overall responsibility for stakeholder engagement 
processes and development, supported by the Responsibility Team at the 
Group level. The same responsibility exists at the business level, where the 
VP of the function is responsible for stakeholder engagement and 
continuous dialogue with customers, business partners, and local 
communities within their business area. This ensures proactive and 
relevant engagement across the business and geographical spectrum.
UPM's most important stakeholders are investors, customers, current 
and future employees, suppliers, communities, media, governments and 
regulators, NGOs, and researchers.
The company incorporated the views and insights gained through 
stakeholder engagement into its business decisions and strategy in 
multiple ways. These methods include, but are not limited to, regular 
interviews and surveys, open dialogue, and engagement events. Function 
representatives are responsible for turning the views into insights that help 
develop the business, its performance, and future strategy.  
The views and feedback from stakeholder dialogue are considered in 
the double materiality assessment to evaluate material sustainability 
topics further. The analysis is based on internal assessments, as well as 
stakeholder interests and concerns. The annual double materiality 
assessment also considers the interests, views, and rights of UPM's 
workforce, value chain workers and affected communities. The Group 
Executive Team reviews the identified material topics, and further action 
is taken if considered relevant.
Measures for UPM's own workforce include the annual UPM Employee 
Engagement Survey (EES), which invites all employees to evaluate various 
aspects of their working environment. See » S1-2 Processes for more 
information about EES.
For example, UPM and NGOs may have different views on how to 
address climate change and biodiversity loss, but they share the same 
goal. UPM believes that active and timely forest management maintains 
carbon sinks and enhances biodiversity, while society needs to reduce its 
dependence on fossil fuels and raw materials. UPM addresses 
stakeholders' concerns at the local, national and international levels, 
participates in public debates, and meets with NGO representatives. 
In general, human rights considerations and due diligence 
requirements are integrated into UPM's global processes, forming the 
basis for UPM's business model. 
The Board is informed through the Audit Committee Chair's regular 
reports when the Audit Committee receives information about 
stakeholders' views and interests that have an actual or potential material 
impact on sustainability. 
The Audit Committee oversees risk management and compliance 
and receives regular updates on these matters.
Impacts, risks and opportunities
SBM-3
UPM's identification of sustainable impacts, risks, and opportunities is 
based on continuous business processes and stakeholder engagement. 
UPM continuously assesses new opportunities, risks and impacts to 
achieve its strategic business objectives. As part of the double materiality 
assessment, UPM has formalized the identification of impacts, risks and 
opportunities in accordance with the ESRS requirements. 
All identified material impacts, risks and opportunities are covered by 
the ESRS Disclosure Requirements. 
Disclosure of ESRS S4 Consumers and end-users is not considered 
material for UPM because UPM does not sell directly to consumers. 
UPM's products are mainly used as raw materials and intermediate 
products, and UPM does not have visibility for the end users of the final 
products. Although UPM has businesses that produce final products, 
these are not considered material in the context of the overall UPM 
Group. Refer to » ESRS 2 BP-1 Coverage of the value chain
The table on the next page provides an overview of the material topics 
identified.
UPM Financial Report 2025 148
Overview of material impacts, risks and opportunities
 Positive impact or opportunity  Negative impact or risk  Upstream  Own operations  Downstream  Short (1 year)  Medium (2–5 years)  Long (over 5 years)
Economic and governance
Renewable and 
circular 
products, and 
CO2-free energy
ESRS 
2, E1, 
E5
Product 
stewardship
Positive impact: Renewable and circular products, as well as CO2-free energy, as alternative for fossil-based 
products   
Opportunity: Increasing market demand for bio-based products and CO2-free energy   
Business 
resiliency
ESRS 
2
Profit Potential negative impact: Threat of temporary shut-downs or closures of sites due to lack of competitive raw 
materials or sales market conditions causing negative impact on employment   
Risks: Dependency on a few main resources such as wood, energy, or water; Unpredictability of emerging 
regulation in the sustainability area   
Opportunity: Competitive advantage to increase efficiency in using main resources   
Business ethics 
and values
G1, 
S2
Governance Positive impact: Ensuring and enhancing ethical behavior in operations and value chain     
Risk: Non-compliance with legislation or agreed practices     
Responsible 
sourcing
G1, 
S2
Responsible 
sourcing
Potential negative impact: Human rights violations with effects on people in the supply chain   
Risk: Disruptions in UPM's supply chain   
Opportunity: Creating business value through supplier development and collaboration     
Environmental
Biodiversity E4 Biodiversity Positive impact: Ensuring and enhancing net-positive impact on biodiversity by UPM's forest management     
Potential negative impact: Biodiversity loss in UPM's multi-tier supply chain   
Risk: Dependency on wood as main resource for production     
Opportunity: Biodiversity ensures healthy forest growth     
Circular 
bioeconomy
E5 Waste,
Product 
stewardship
Positive impact: Circularity in UPM's production processes and recyclability of products reducing the need for non-
circular materials     
Opportunity: Avoided costs for waste disposal and purchase of virgin materials   
Climate change E1 Climate Positive impact: Climate change mitigation through climate-related effects of forests, renewable and circular 
products, and CO2-free energy     
Negative impact: Fossil CO2 emissions from own energy generation (Scope 1), purchased energy (Scope 2) and 
related to value chain (Scope 3)     
Risk: Transitional as well as physical climate-related risks, due to changes in legislation and extreme weather events     
Opportunity: Transition opportunities covered by UPM's business model focusing on bio-based products and CO2-free 
energy     
Sustainable 
forestry
E4 Forestry Potential negative impact: Deforestation in UPM's multi-tier supply chain   
Risk: Physical risks for forests due to climate change   
Opportunity: Accelerated forest growth due to climate change   
Sustainable 
water usage
E2, 
E3
Water Potential negative impact: UPM's water usage and environmental incidents may effect the environment     
Risk: Potential operational hazards causing shutdown or curtailed production     
Social
Decent work 
and fair 
rewarding
S1 Responsible 
leadership,
Continuous 
learning and 
development,
Fair 
rewarding
Positive impact: Providing equal and adequate wages, training, and development support   
Potential negative impact: Job losses due to closing of operations or restructuring     
Risk: Lack of skilled workforce   
Opportunity: Being the employer of choice   
Diversity and 
inclusion
S1 Diversity and 
inclusion
Positive impact: Enhancement of diversity and inclusion with positive effect on workforce   
Health and 
safety
S1, S2 Safe and 
healthy 
working 
environment
Positive impact: Enhanced health and safety for workforce in all UPM sites     
Negative impact: Health and safety incidents, including serious accidents and fatalities for people working at 
UPM sites and in the supply chain     
Risk: Potential injury of UPM's employees, contractors, or third parties   
Communities S3 Community 
involvement
Positive impact: Effect on local development through UPM's production sites and investments     
Potential negative impact: Environmental incidents or safety accidents can effect people in the communities 
around UPM sites     
Material topics ESRS
UPM focus 
areas Impacts, risks and opportunities - in short
Value chain 
location
Time 
horizon
UPM Financial Report 2025 149
UPM Annual Report 2025148 149
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Current and anticipated effects on UPM
From an opportunity standpoint, the global shift toward green and 
sustainable societies supports UPM's strategy and business objectives, as 
it increases the demand for fossil-free, renewable, and circular products 
and materials. These opportunities are strategic for UPM's business and 
financial performance in the short, medium and long term. 
From a risk perspective, UPM's main sustainability risks are climate 
change, biodiversity loss, increasing sustainability-related regulation, 
acceptance of forest biomass, human rights violations in the value chain, 
and risks to the environment and people from potential operational 
hazards. 
Climate change and biodiversity loss are becoming important sources 
of direct financial and operational risks to UPM's operations and raw 
material sourcing. These risks are increasing droughts, heat waves, water 
scarcity, and pest damage. Potential floods, tropical cyclones, severe 
convective storms, and forest fires could also affect UPM's operations or its 
suppliers, and their potential impact is expected to increase in the long 
term. In addition, climate change has, and is expected to have, a direct 
impact on global logistics and supply chains, directly affecting UPM's 
operations and those of its suppliers.  
UPM is investing in developing resilience in forest and supply chain 
management and operations to mitigate potential negative effects. UPM 
considers responsible sourcing a key measure to mitigate identified and 
potential sustainability risks. UPM's forests and plantations are located in 
areas with low water stress and wildfire risks. Forest management 
certification schemes ensure responsible wood sourcing. 
At the Group and business area level, risk management considers 
sustainability risks as part of ongoing risk management processes. 
UPM actively participates in developing sustainability-related 
regulation at the local and EU levels to support the sustainable 
transformation of the industry. While fully supporting the EU's 
sustainability-related initiatives, UPM also identifies certain regulatory 
changes that could directly impact operations by affecting the availability 
of raw materials. These regulatory changes may impact raw material 
costs while strengthening UPM's position in producing bio-based 
products and materials.
UPM has identified human rights and responsible sourcing risks and 
impacts in its global supply chains. UPM adheres to global human rights 
and sustainability frameworks to promote responsible sourcing practices 
in supply chains. However, there is potential for negative impacts in supply 
chains where UPM's sustainability standards may not be met. UPM  
continuously develops methods and tools to identify, assess, and mitigate 
sustainability risks and impacts related to supply chains.
From an impact perspective, UPM's GHG emissions from its 
operations and value chain (Scope 1–3) contribute to climate change. 
Although wood sourcing can have a short-term impact on carbon 
storage in forests, sustainable forest management ensures carbon sinks 
in the medium and long term. These impacts are directly linked to climate 
change and pose risks for UPM's business. At the same time, forest 
management practices have a direct impact on the state of biodiversity 
in forests. UPM recognizes this link between forest operations and 
biodiversity and is constantly increasing its efforts to enhance 
biodiversity.
Resilience of UPM's business model
UPM's strategy and business management are based on the continuous 
assessment of potential changes in the operating environment and 
market dynamics. The analysis of business resilience is based on different 
scenarios, which take into account the main sustainability-related risks, 
impacts, and opportunities. Key sustainability-related risks and impacts 
are considered in relation to raw material and operational expenses, both 
of which are monitored and forecasted as part of the regular business 
steering processes.
Separate analyses of climate resilience and water scarcity risk have 
been conducted in relation to environmental risks. 
Refer to » ESRS 2 IRO-1 Climate-related risks, » E1 SBM-3 Climate risks 
and business resilience; » E3-2 Actions, Water risk assessments
Comparison with 2024 reporting
The list of material impacts, risks and opportunities did not change 
materially from the previous year's report, except for a new risk regarding 
the unpredictability of emerging sustainability legislation. Other changes 
focused on clarification. For example, two former product-related 
material topics were combined to “Renewable and circular products, and 
CO2-free energy“.
 Based on the review of the double materiality assessment in 2025, 
UPM omitted the quantitative disclosure on E2-5 Substances of Concern. 
IRO-1
Materiality assessment process
Process in general
UPM has conducted an annual materiality assessment since 2011. Since 
2023, UPM's annual materiality assessment has followed EFRAG's 
guidelines for double materiality assessments. 
Double materiality considers both impact materiality such as UPM's 
impact on people and the environment, and financial materiality, i.e. 
sustainability-related risks and opportunities that are likely to have a 
financial impact on UPM. The assessment covers negative and positive, 
actual and potential impacts on the economy, the environment, and 
people, including the impact on human rights. 
The identification of impacts, risks, and opportunities is based on 
internal expertise and several internal sources, including: 
• salient human rights assessments, 
• supplier and contractor audits as well as supply chain ESG risk 
assessments, 
• occupational health and safety and environmental performance results, 
• grievance mechanisms, 
• company risk assessments and compliance, 
• regulatory monitoring, 
• sustainability-related data (e.g. emissions, resource use, and health and 
safety data) and 
• sustainability due diligence processes. 
UPM Financial Report 2025 150
The interests and concerns of various stakeholders have been included in 
the process of identifying material impacts, risks, and opportunities. The 
process  includes customer and local community inquiries, counterparty 
and media screening, NGO concerns, investor, government, and 
regulatory agendas, as well as UPM's employee engagement survey. 
For the first double materiality assessment in 2023, interviews, 
questionnaires and workshops with internal and external stakeholders were 
also used. 
The identified material topics are taken into account in the review of 
UPM's sustainability focus areas and define the scope of this 
Sustainability Statement. 
See » table in chapter SBM-3 for an overview of the material topics and 
their relation to UPM's sustainability focus areas and the ESRS standards 
relevant to this Sustainability Statement.
Short-, medium- and long-term impacts are considered throughout the 
value chain. 
The significance of impacts is assessed according to their severity, which 
is determined by their scale and scope. In case of negative impacts, 
irremediability is also considered. The likelihood of potential impacts is also 
assessed.
UPM's thresholds for assessing scale, scope, and irremediability follow 
the principles of the global frameworks to which UPM is committed in its 
operations (e.g. different thresholds for environmental versus social 
impacts). Thresholds can be both quantitative and qualitative.
For example, materiality thresholds evaluate impacts against UPM's 
financial performance, the number of stakeholders affected, and  
geographical coverage.
UPM's Group-level risk assessment process includes an assessment 
of the financial impact of sustainability-related risks and opportunities on 
the company. Some of the impacts of the company's activities and 
business relationships on the economy, environment, and people may 
eventually become financial material issues. Financial materiality is 
assessed by analyzing the probability or frequency of events and the 
range of potential financial consequences to determine their effect on the 
company's objectives. Risks are evaluated based on their immediate and 
direct impacts (e.g. physical climate-related risks to UPM's production 
sites), secondary impacts (e.g. the ability to continue operations and 
generate business results), and long-term transformative impacts 
resulting from demand and regulatory changes (e.g. the societal 
transition to renewable and fossil-free materials).
Using thematic assessments (e.g. climate change, biodiversity, and 
human rights), UPM's expert teams evaluate potential risks arising from 
identified dependencies.
After analyzing the impacts, risks, and opportunities, the most 
significant ones are identified as material to UPM and grouped into topics. 
Internal professional judgment is also used to prioritize and group them. 
This list of material impacts, risks, and opportunities is annually 
reviewed by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors and approved 
by the GET.
UPM integrates the management of environmental, social, or 
governance (ESG) risks into its risk management practices throughout 
the organization. 
Topical assessments
Impact on climate change
Based on its double materiality assessment, UPM considers the impact of 
its fossil CO2 emissions on climate change to have a high negative 
potential. The physical impacts of climate change include more frequent 
and severe weather conditions, which may lead to societal shifts, with 
increasing social inequality and working poverty. UPM can mitigate the 
negative impacts through its climate-related sustainability targets and 
developments. 
Refer to » E1-4 for climate-related sustainability targets and follow-up; 
Refer to » E1-6 for UPM's greenhouse gas emissions.
Climate-related risks
Both top-down (macro trends, expert interviews) and bottom-up 
(business area, business unit input) approaches are used to manage 
risks, including those related to climate change. The process includes the 
assessment of strategic risks (e.g. regulation, market), operational risks 
(e.g. availability and price of key inputs), and hazard risks (e.g. natural 
events). Many transitional risks and some physical risks, and especially 
their combinations, are considered to have a potential strategic and 
significant financial impact on UPM's operations. 
UPM's position and resilience in different climate scenarios have been 
evaluated for the businesses and functions from both a physical and a 
transition perspective using expertise from the scientific community. The 
Finnish Meteorological Institute (FMI) has issued a report to predict the 
future physical impacts of climate change on UPM's main operation 
areas in Finland, Germany, Uruguay and China. Three greenhouse gas 
scenarios are considered: the SSP1-2.6 scenario represents low, SSP2-4.5 
medium and SSP5-8.5 very high future emissions. Published in December 
2024, the report examines changes in weather conditions between the 
years 1961–2023, and future climate projections in the aforementioned 
areas. This report is an update to a wider FMI report ordered in 2019.  
Observational data shows a statistically significant increase in seasonal 
temperatures. Mean temperatures are expected to rise in all four regions, 
although the magnitude of change varies considerably. With general 
warming, hot extremes will become more frequent. Precipitation is likely to 
increase in Finland during winter and to decrease in Germany during 
summer. Extreme precipitation events are expected to intensify in all four 
regions. In the second half of the 21st century, the extent of climate change 
will strongly depend on the evolution of greenhouse gas emissions. If 
emissions are effectively reduced, the changes will likely be less severe. 
The FMI report is publicly available on the University of Helsinki open 
repository (helda.helsinki.fi) as report 2024-3; Climate change in Finland, 
Germany, Uruguay and China: observed changes and future projections 
derived from CMIP6 global climate models.
In general, transition impacts play a greater role in low- and medium-
emission scenarios, and UPM is well positioned, as its business portfolio 
allows flexibility with respect to the identified risks and opportunities. The 
main risks and opportunities related to climate change have been 
identified as transitional risks: competition; markets; customers; products; 
and regulation. In the high-emission scenario, physical impacts dominate, 
with severe consequences not only for UPM but also for ecosystems and 
societies around the world. 
UPM Financial Report 2025 151
UPM Annual Report 2025150 151
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

For example, distortions in the raw material (wood) market due to the 
physical impacts of climate change or unpredictable regulation, subsidies 
or EU policies and resulting national legislation in EU countries could have 
a significant impact on UPM's financial performance. Opportunities arise 
from the use of wood as a renewable raw material for UPM's products, 
which are often an alternative to fossil-based materials.
Refer to » Note 1.2 Basis of preparation, section Climate-related risks 
in the consolidated financial statements
Impacts and risks related to pollution, water, circularity, and 
resource use
For all production sites and forestry units, deviations from permit limits 
and the results of the internal Clean Run standard reviews are used to 
screen for potential impacts and risks. The Clean Run reviews also help 
identify best practices and opportunities. Refer to » E2-2 Actions, UPM’s 
Clean Run concept
UPM has screened its pulp and paper mills based on annual 
benchmarks between sites and against the best available techniques. The 
pulp and paper mills are considered most relevant in terms of potential 
water, air and soil pollution, and water use. Resource use and the circular 
economy are material topics for UPM as a whole. 
For new products and product development, screening of possible 
impacts and identification of risks and opportunities throughout the 
product life cycle is covered by UPM's Sustainable Product Design concept. 
Refer to » E5-2 Actions, UPM’s Sustainable Product Design concept
Environmental impacts and risks related to UPM's upstream value 
chain are identified as part of the regular sustainability risk salience 
assessment. In addition, UPM's sourcing categories use the company's 
Sustainable Supply Chain Program and a dedicated guidance document 
to identify the highest priority sustainability topics in their category. Refer 
to » G1-2 Responsible sourcing, UPM's Sustainable Supply Chain 
Program
Water related risks are mapped and analyzed also at UPM’s 
production sites. In relation to water risks, refer to » E3-2 Water risk 
assessments
UPM does not use marine resources. Connections are related to the 
direct discharge of treated wastewater in the case of two sites located on 
the coast, the transportation of resources and products by sea, and 
indirectly through discharge of treated wastewater into rivers and lakes that 
end up in the sea. All these aspects have been assessed but are not 
considered to have a material negative impact or to pose a material risk. 
Consultation with affected communities is usually part of the 
environmental permitting process. In addition, ISO 14001 and EMAS 
emphasize engagement and communication with affected stakeholders.
Biodiversity-related impacts and risks 
UPM continuously assesses actual and potential impacts, risks, 
opportunities, and dependencies related to biodiversity as part of the 
annual double materiality assessment and other regular or case-by-case 
assessments.
For example, forest certification plays a crucial role in identifying and 
managing biodiversity impacts and risks in both UPM's own forests and in 
other wood sources. UPM participates in a project led by FSC™ to better 
understand and quantify the positive impacts of forest certification on 
biodiversity.
Biodiversity risks associated with UPM's upstream value chain are 
identified as part of UPM's sustainability risk assessment. In addition, 
UPM's sourcing categories use the company's Sustainable Supply Chain 
Program and a dedicated guidance document to identify the highest 
priority sustainability topics in their sourcing category. Regarding 
biodiversity, the focus is on supply chains with a high risk of habitat 
destruction, overexploitation, or pollution.
Possible ecosystem services of UPM's forest areas are water and 
recreational value, for example. Assessments and stakeholder 
information are carried out as appropriate.
UPM's main raw material is wood, so UPM depends on forest 
ecosystems, and the biodiversity and ecosystem services they provide. 
Industrial activities such as pulp and paper production and hydropower 
generation also have an impact on biodiversity. 
No systemic risks specific to UPM have been identified.
UPM recognizes the importance of dialogue and open 
communication channels with internal and external stakeholders who are 
or may be affected by the company's actions. For example, this is done 
as part of UPM's forest management practices in accordance with FSC™ 
and PEFC requirements in the company's forestry operations. FSC™ 
requirements include measures such as identifying and analyzing 
stakeholders, engaging with stakeholders via meetings or feedback 
mechanisms, and involving stakeholders in the planning, implementation, 
and monitoring of forest management activities. This is a continuous 
process for UPM's forest operations. UPM is also engaging with 
stakeholders by participating in relevant networks and organizations. 
In UPM's operations, the most significant impact on biodiversity 
occurs in wood sourcing. UPM is therefore committed to sustainable 
forestry that provides high-quality wood, maintains and enhances 
biodiversity and water protection, and protects the recreational use and 
ecosystem services of forests. Biodiversity-sensitive areas are identified, 
and measures are taken to avoid negative impacts on these areas in line 
with the relevant legislation at national or international level.
Compliance-related impacts and risks 
Refer to » G1-1 Policies, Reporting and identifying concerns, Investigating 
and handling concerns
Supplier-related impacts, risks and opportunities 
Refer to » G1-2 Responsible sourcing, Risk mitigation
Risks and opportunities related to anti-corruption and bribery
Refer to » G1-3 Anti-corruption and bribery, UPM's compliance system 
UPM Financial Report 2025 152
IRO-2
List of disclosure requirements 
The list of disclosure requirements is integrated into the table of contents 
at the beginning of this Sustainability Statement. 
The table below provides an overview of ESRS data points that derive 
from other EU legislation and where this information can be found if 
considered material. Regulation references include SFDR (Sustainable 
Finance Disclosures Regulation) or Others (Pillar 3 , Benchmark 
regulation, and/or EU Climate Law) as required in ESRS 1 Annex B.
Refer to » SBM-3 Impacts, risks and opportunities for the mapping of 
material impacts and ESRS standards
Refer to » IRO-1 Materiality assessment process for a detailed description 
of UPM's double materiality assessment process.
List of data points derived from other EU legislation 
ESRS 2 GOV-1 Board’s gender diversity (paragraph 21 (d) ) 139 SFDR
ESRS 2 GOV-1 Percentage of Board members who are independent (paragraph 21 (e) ) 139 SFDR
ESRS 2 GOV-4 Statement on due diligence (paragraph 30) 143 SFDR
ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to fossil fuel activities (paragraph 40 (d) i ) 144 SFDR
ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to chemical production (paragraph 40 (d) ii ) 144 SFDR
ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to controversial weapons (paragraph 40 (d) iii ) Not material SFDR
ESRS 2 SBM-1 Involvement in activities related to cultivation and production of tobacco (paragraph 40 (d) iv ) Not material SFDR
ESRS E1-1 Transition plan to reach climate neutrality by 2050 (paragraph 14) 156 Others
ESRS E1-1 Undertakings excluded from Paris-aligned Benchmarks (paragraph 16 (g) ) 156 Others
ESRS E1-4 GHG emission reduction targets (paragraph 34) 161 SFDR, Others
ESRS E1-5 Energy consumption from fossil sources disaggregated by sources (paragraph 38) 164 SFDR
ESRS E1-5 Energy consumption and mix (paragraph 37) 164 SFDR
ESRS E1-5 Energy intensity associated with activities in high climate impact sectors (paragraphs 40 to 43) 164 SFDR
ESRS E1-6 Gross Scope 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions (paragraph 44) 165 SFDR, Others
ESRS E1-6 Gross GHG emissions intensity (paragraphs 53 to 55) 165 SFDR, Others
ESRS E1-7 GHG removals and carbon credits (paragraph 56) 168 Others
ESRS E1-9 Exposure of the benchmark portfolio to climate-related physical risks (paragraph 66) 169 Others
ESRS E1-9 Disaggregation of monetary amounts by acute and chronic physical risk (paragraph 66 (a) ) Phased-in Others
ESRS E1-9 Location of significant assets at material physical risk (paragraph 66 (c)) Phased-in Others
ESRS E1-9 Breakdown of the carrying value of its real estate assets by energy-efficiency classes (paragraph 67 (c)) Phased-in Others
ESRS E1-9 Degree of exposure of the portfolio to climate-related opportunities (paragraph 69) Phased-in Others
ESRS E2-4 Amount of each pollutant listed in Annex II of the E-PRTR Regulation (European Pollutant Release and Transfer 
Register) emitted to air, water and soil (paragraph 28) 181 SFDR
ESRS E3-1 Water and marine resources (paragraph 9) 184 SFDR
ESRS E3-1 Dedicated policy (paragraph 13) Not material SFDR
ESRS E3-1 Sustainable oceans and seas (paragraph 14) Not material SFDR
ESRS E3-4 Total water recycled and reused (paragraph 28 (c) ) 187 SFDR
ESRS E3-4 Total water consumption in m3 per net revenue on own operations (paragraph 29) 187 SFDR
Datapoint Page number Regulation
UPM Financial Report 2025 153
UPM Annual Report 2025152 153
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

ESRS 2 IRO 1 E4 Biodiversity-related impacts, risks and opportunities (paragraph 16 a-c) 189 SFDR
ESRS E4-2 Sustainable land/agriculture practices or policies (paragraph 24 (b) ) 190 SFDR
ESRS E4-2 Sustainable oceans/seas practices or policies (paragraph 24 (c)) Not material SFDR
ESRS E4-2 Policies to address deforestation (paragraph 24 (d)) 190 SFDR
ESRS E5-5 Non-recycled waste (paragraph 37 (d)) 207 SFDR
ESRS E5-5 Hazardous waste and radioactive waste (paragraph 39) 207 SFDR
ESRS 2- SBM3 – S1 Risk of incidents of forced labor (paragraph 14 (f)) 209 SFDR
ESRS 2- SBM3 – S1 Risk of incidents of child labor (paragraph 14 (g)) 209 Others
ESRS S1-1 Human rights policy commitments (paragraph 20) 210 SFDR, Others
ESRS S1-1 Due diligence policies on issues addressed by the fundamental International Labour Organization Conventions 1 to 8 
(paragraph 21) 210 SFDR
ESRS S1-1 Processes and measures for preventing trafficking in human beings (paragraph 22) 210 SFDR
ESRS S1-1 Workplace accident prevention policy or management system (paragraph 23) 210 SFDR
ESRS S1-3 Grievance/complaints handling mechanisms (paragraph 32 (c)) 237 SFDR, Others
ESRS S1-14 Number of fatalities and number and rate of work-related accidents (paragraph 88 (b) and (c)) 219 SFDR, Others
ESRS S1-14 Number of days lost to injuries, accidents, fatalities or illness (paragraph 88 (e)) 219 Others
ESRS S1-16 Unadjusted gender pay gap (paragraph 97 (a)) 221 Others
ESRS S1-16 Total remuneration ratio (paragraph 97 (b)) 221 Others
ESRS S1-17 Incidents of discrimination (paragraph 103 (a)) 221 Others
ESRS S1-17 Non-respect of UNGPs on Business and Human Rights and OECD (paragraph 104 (a)) 221 Others
ESRS 2- SBM3 – S2 Significant risk of child labor or forced labor in the value chain (paragraph 11 (b)) 223 SFDR, Others
ESRS S2-1 Human Rights Policy commitments (paragraph 17) 224 SFDR
ESRS S2-1 Policies related to value chain workers (paragraph 18) 224 SFDR
ESRS S2-1 Non-respect of UNGPs on Business and Human Rights principles and OECD guidelines (paragraph 19) 224 SFDR
ESRS S2-1 Due diligence policies on issues addressed by the fundamental International Labour Organization Conventions 1 to 8 
( paragraph 19) 224 SFDR, Others
ESRS S2-4 Human rights issues and incidents connected to its upstream and downstream value chain (paragraph 36) 226 SFDR, Others
ESRS S3-1 Human Rights Policy commitments (paragraph 16) 231 Others
ESRS S3-1 Non-respect of UNGPs on Business and Human Rights, ILO principles and/or OECD guidelines (paragraph 17) 231 Others
ESRS S3-4 Human rights issues and incidents (paragraph 36) 234 Others
ESRS S4-1 Policies related to consumers and end-users (paragraph 16) Not material Others
ESRS S4-1 Non-respect of UNGPs on Business and Human Rights and OECD guidelines (paragraph 17) Not material SFDR, Others
ESRS S4-4 Human rights issues and incidents (paragraph 35) Not material SFDR
ESRS G1-1 United Nations Convention against Corruption (paragraph 10 (b)) 237 SFDR
ESRS G1-1 Protection of whistleblowers (paragraph 10 (d)) 238 SFDR
ESRS G1-4 Fines for violation of anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws (paragraph 24 (a)) 244 SFDR, Others
ESRS G1-4 Standards of anti-corruption and anti- bribery (paragraph 24 (b)) 244 SFDR, Others
Datapoint Page number Regulation
UPM Financial Report 2025 154
Climate change (ESRS E1)
UPM is committed to contributing to limiting global temperature rise and to science-based targets for mitigating 
climate change.
Reduction in fossil CO2 emissions from 
UPM's on-site combustion and 
purchased energy (Scope 1 and 2)
Reduction in CO2 emissions 
from materials and logistics 
(Scope 3)
Five-year average 
annual carbon sink of 
approximately 
-58% -22% -1.9
Compared to 2015 
(2030 target: -65%)
Compared to 2018 
(2030 target -30%)
Mt CO2 equivalents
UPM Financial Report 2025 155
UPM Annual Report 2025154 155
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Transition plan
E1-1
UPM's path to net-zero
UPM offers renewable alternatives for fossil-based materials to meet the 
growing global consumer demand. UPM's strategy is driving the 
transformation as a frontrunner in the bioeconomy. The company is 
investing in sustainable growth.
Forests, wood-based products, and low-carbon energy play a unique 
role in both mitigating the effects of climate change and in UPM's 
strategy. UPM has set ambitious targets in all these areas as part of its 
Group-level sustainability targets for 2030.
UPM is committed to a 1.5 °C pathway as outlined in the Paris 
Agreement (climate target) and to science-based measures to mitigate 
climate change. As a signatory to The Climate Pledge, UPM is committed 
to achieving carbon neutrality by 2040, 10 years ahead of the Paris 
Agreement. As part of the UN Global Compact's Forward Faster initiative, 
UPM is also committed to setting net-zero targets as defined by the 
Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). However, SBTi has temporarily 
suspended the use of the timber and wood fibre pathway included in the 
Forest, Land and Agriculture (FLAG) Target-Setting Tool. Therefore, 
setting UPM’s long-term net-zero target can be finalized when the 
relevant guidelines and tools for accounting land sector emissions and 
removals will be available. This is expected to happen in 2026. 
UPM has participated in consultations of the SBTi Net Zero standard 
and Forest, Land and Agriculture guidance reviews.
The company's fossil CO2 emissions reduction targets until 2030 for 
Scope 1, 2 and 3 have been validated by the SBTi to be aligned with the    1.5 
°C pathway as outlined in the Paris Agreement. 
Climate change mitigation actions
UPM acts through climate-positive forestry, reducing emissions and 
innovating products:
We act through forests. Forests and forest biodiversity are critical for 
mitigating the effects of climate change. We ensure that our forests 
continue to act as carbon sinks, remain resilient and diverse in 
changing climate conditions, and thrive for future generations.
We act through emissions. Minimizing the use of fossil fuels and raw 
materials is the most important way to mitigate climate change. We 
favor renewable and other carbon-neutral energy sources and 
produce CO2-free hydro and nuclear power in Finland. We are also 
committed to reducing emissions in our supply chain.
We act through products. Innovating new products that are not 
based on fossil raw materials is at the core of our strategy. We develop 
safe and sustainable products that offer alternatives to fossil materials.
Refer to » E1-3 Actions; Refer to » E1-4 Targets 
Investments and funding
Climate change mitigation actions are integrated into UPM's investment 
plans. The main investments relevant to climate change mitigation 
include:
Climate-positive forestry 
UPM is both a major forest owner and a purchaser of wood. The value of 
forest assets, i.e. standing trees, amounted to €2,605 million (2,517 
million) at the end of 2025 (Refer to » Note 4.2 Forest assets in the 
consolidated financial statement). In 2025, UPM's capitalized forest 
regeneration costs amounted to €64 million (53 million), including costs 
related to land preparation, planting, fertilization, leased plantation areas 
and nursery operations. Corresponding OpEx amounted to €26 million 
(27 million), including maintenance of forestry infrastructure, forest fire 
fighting, protection, and environmental activities. 
Refer to » EU Taxonomy disclosure activity “1.3 Forest management”
Reducing emissions
As part of the climate change mitigation actions related to UPM's 2030 
targets, UPM is investing in energy efficiency improvements throughout 
its operations. In 2025, UPM invested €4 million (9 million)  in energy 
efficiency improvements and reducing CO2 emissions, mainly through 
improvements to heat recovery and logistics development. OpEx related 
to CO2-free nuclear power amounted to €54 million (34 million) and was 
related to UPM's share of ongoing maintenance costs of the property, 
plant, and equipment of the new and existing nuclear power plant units 
Olkiluoto 1, 2 and 3. In addition, UPM is annually allocating resources to its 
hydropower operations in the form of capital expenditure and 
maintenance of hydropower plants.
Refer to » EU Taxonomy disclosure activity "4.27. Construction and safe 
operation of new nuclear power plants, for the generation of electricity 
or heat, including for hydrogen production, using best available 
techniques" and » "4.28. Electricity generation from nuclear energy in 
existing installations"
Innovating products
UPM develops sustainable products that offer alternatives to fossil 
materials. UPM is investing in a next-generation biochemicals refinery in 
Leuna in Germany, where new technologies and products will reduce 
GHG emissions. The total investment estimate for the Leuna biorefinery is 
€1,335 million. In 2025, investments to Biochemicals operations 
amounted to €259 million (309 million). The biorefinery will produce a 
range of 100% wood-based biochemicals, which will enable a switch from 
fossil raw materials to sustainable alternatives in various consumer-
driven end-uses. Production and sales of the first commercial products, 
industrial sugars, started at the end of 2025. Production and sales of 
further products, lignin, renewable functional fillers and finally glycols is 
expected to start in 2026. The start-up of the biorefinery marks a 
significant milestone for UPM.
Refer to » EU Taxonomy disclosure activity “3.6 Manufacture of other 
low-carbon technologies” 
UPM Financial Report 2025 156
The investment in Leuna and forest management are also included in the 
proceeds of UPM's Green Bond portfolio. 
Refer to line items » Capital expenditure and » Additions to forest assets 
in Consolidated cash flow statement
Refer to line item » Costs and expenses in Consolidated income 
statement 
Refer to » Note 2.3 Operating expenses and other operating income in 
the consolidated financial statements 
See » EU Taxonomy, sections “CapEx” and “OpEx” and tables "CapEx"  
and "OpEx"
See » E1-3 Actions for realized and planned key actions
Other climate change mitigation-related aspects 
UPM does not consider its assets and sold products to have locked-in 
fossil GHG emissions. Locked-in GHG emissions are considered to be 
emissions which occur due to long-term investments or commitments to 
assets or products generating emissions still long in the future.
All the economic activities that UPM reports under the Taxonomy 
Regulation contribute to climate change mitigation (CCM). All activities, 
except 1.1 Afforestation and 1.3 Forest management, are assessed as 
Taxonomy-aligned. UPM considers that these before mentioned activities 
meet all alignment requirements, with the exception of third-party 
verification. UPM intends to obtain the necessary external verification 
and, once completed, plans to also assess activities 1.1 Afforestation and 
1.3 Forest management as Taxonomy-aligned. Refer to » EU Taxonomy 
disclosure, Assessment of Taxonomy eligibility and alignment
UPM did not spend significant CapEx related to coal-, oil-, or gas-
related economic activities in 2025.
UPM is not excluded from the EU Paris-aligned Benchmarks 
according to the exclusion criteria stated in Articles 12.1 (d) to (g) and 12.2. 
of the Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818 (Climate 
Benchmark Standards Regulation).
Climate actions embedded in UPM's 
strategy
Forests, wood-based products, and low-carbon energy play a unique role 
in UPM's strategy and in mitigating the effects of climate change. With 
UPM's target to reduce Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, these areas form the 
basis for UPM's transition plan. 
UPM's financing is linked to sustainability performance. Four green 
bonds, issued since 2020, have a strong focus on climate-related 
activities. In addition, UPM has credit facilities which are linked to 
biodiversity and climate targets.
In accordance with its main duties and responsibilities, the UPM Board 
of Directors reviewed and approved the strategic objectives and plans of 
the company and its business areas. The key enablers of UPM's updated 
strategy are people, productivity, commercial excellence, sustainability, 
and innovation. 
UPM aims to accelerate growth in the coming years. The company's 
business portfolio offers robust growth opportunities in renewable fibres 
such as pulp; in advanced materials such as adhesive materials and 
specialty papers; and in decarbonization solutions such as biochemicals, 
biofuels, and CO₂-free energy.
 Decarbonization solutions offer innovative and sustainable options to 
meet the urgent need to decarbonize society. Renewable fuels and 
renewable chemicals are the central elements of UPM’s long-term growth 
in decarbonization solutions. UPM is addressing key sectors that are 
critical for decarbonization with the launch of the biochemicals business, 
further development of the biofuels business, and by capturing the value 
of the energy market transformation. Minimizing the use of fossil fuels is 
the most important way to mitigate climate change. 
UPM will contribute to the decarbonization of the electricity system by 
increasing the supply of reliable and renewable CO2-free electricity. In 
Biochemicals, the startup of the UPM Leuna refinery marks a significant 
milestone. In Biofuels, UPM announced to discontinue the development of 
its potential second biomass-to-fuels refinery at the Port of Rotterdam 
following extended technical, commercial and strategic evaluations. 
Renewable fuels and renewable chemicals are the central elements of 
UPM’s long-term growth in decarbonization solutions. UPM is focusing on 
three targeted growth areas in its biofuels business: 
• Evaluating the potential to debottleneck the Lappeenranta 
biorefinery in order to capture low CapEx expansion opportunities and 
further leverage the strong market performance of CTO-derived biofuels.
• Enabling the qualification of CTO-derived UPM biofuels as 
sustainable aviation fuel (SAF). This strategic direction is supported by 
successful SAF trials conducted with the Austrian aircraft manufacturer 
Diamond Aircraft using Austro Engine propulsion and by continued 
progress in the technical acceptance process at the American Society for 
Testing and Materials (ASTM). Results from these trials and stakeholder 
reviews have been consistently positive.
• Continuing feedstock technology development to qualify and enable 
the use of additional competitive and sustainable biomass. This will 
support the cost-efficient production of high-quality biofuels for both road 
and aviation applications.
In addition, key climate-related issues such as scenario analyses, 
commitments and UPM's overall approach to forests, emissions 
reductions in the production and supply chain, and climate-positive 
products are reported directly to UPM's management bodies, led by the 
President and CEO.
Refer to » E1-4 Targets for climate-related sustainability targets for 2030 
and their follow-up and Refer to » E1-3 Actions for realized and planned 
key actions.
UPM Financial Report 2025 157
UPM Annual Report 2025156 157
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Impacts, risks and opportunities
ESRS 2 SBM-3
Overview of material impacts, risks and opportunities
Impacts, risks and opportunities Description
Positive impact: Climate change mitigation through 
climate-related effects of forests and bio-based 
products
Through its sustainable forest management practices UPM ensures that its forests in Finland and the U.S., as 
well as its land areas in Uruguay, act as carbon sink. UPM's bio-based products create temporary carbon 
storage and substitute fossil-based materials.
Negative impact: Fossil CO2 emissions from UPM's own 
energy generation (Scope 1), purchased energy (Scope 
2), and related to value chain (Scope 3)
Despite continuous actions and achievements to reduce fossil CO2 emissions in line with the 1.5 °C target, 
UPM is still generating a significant amount of fossil CO2 emissions via its production sites and in the value 
chain. These will be reduced further in line with UPM's transition pathway to achieve net-zero.
Risk: Transitional as well as physical, climate-related 
risks due to changes in legislation and extreme weather 
events
UPM is exposed to a variety of risks related to climate change. Transitional risks are related e.g. to regulation 
and the price and availability of raw materials and energy. Physical risks are related e.g. to exceptional 
weather events which could result in unpredictable hydropower availability, wood harvesting conditions, or 
operational disruptions.
Opportunity: Transition opportunities covered by UPM's 
business model focusing on bio-based products and 
CO2-free energy
Opportunities driven by resource efficiency, new technologies, CO2-free electricity, and bio-based products 
could bring new markets, sources of funding and competitive advantage, and a possible increase in forest 
growth in UPM's relevant areas.
Refer to » Report of the Board of Directors, section Risks, paragraph Climate change
Climate risks and business resilience
UPM's position and resilience in different climate scenarios have been 
evaluated for the company's businesses and functions from both 
physical and transitional perspectives. 
A company-wide assessment of transition risks and opportunities has 
been made for each of UPM's business areas according to the different 
scenarios for project future energy trends and their potential impacts 
used by the International Energy Agency (IEA): the New Policies Scenario 
(NPS), Current Policies Scenario (CPS) and 2 °C Scenario (2DS). 
The company-wide physical scenario analysis for three Shared 
Socioeconomic Pathways (SSP1-2.6, SSP2-4.5 and SSP5-8.5) focused on 
the impacts of projected changes in four main areas of UPM's operations: 
Finland; Germany; Uruguay; and China. The analysis included impacts on 
forest growth, productivity, and water availability arising from climate 
change related disturbances such as changes in precipitation, 
evaporation, droughts, and floods. The study was carried out by the 
Finnish Meteorological Institute in 2024. Refer to » ESRS 2 IRO-1 Climate-
related risks for more information on the study results.
In general, transition impacts play a larger role in the low- and 
medium-emissions scenarios, and UPM is well positioned, as its business 
portfolio allows flexibility in terms of recognized risks and opportunities. In 
the high-emissions scenario, physical impacts dominate, with serious 
consequences not only for UPM but for ecosystems and societies around 
the world.
Policies
E1-2
The UPM Code of Conduct expresses the company's respect for people, 
the environment, and ethical business practices, including its 
commitment to climate change mitigation and adaptation. The Code is 
complemented by UPM's Sustainability Policy Statement, which 
addresses the issue in more detail. The UPM Supplier and Third-Party 
Code sets out minimum requirements for the value chain. Refer to » G1-1 
Policies for more information about these policy documents.
UPM's high level commitment to climate change mitigation and 
adaptation is included in the UPM Code of Conduct: “UPM is committed 
to science-based actions to mitigate the impact of our operations on 
climate and biodiversity and to adapt to climate change. On an ongoing 
basis, we measure and assess the direct and indirect environmental risks 
and impacts of our operations and promote the use of the best available 
techniques. We expect our suppliers and business partners to share our 
commitment to the environment.” 
In UPM's Sustainability Policy Statement, this commitment is 
specified for the CO2 reduction target to cover operations and the supply 
chain in line with the science-based target and measures are introduced 
for the three pillars of UPM's climate actions: climate-positive forestry; 
reducing emissions; and climate-positive products. 
In addition, UPM's Sustainable Supply Chain Program states that 
UPM's suppliers are expected to report their carbon footprint annually, 
commit to time-bound greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets, and 
take appropriate actions.
UPM Financial Report 2025 158
UPM's commitment to energy efficiency is also addressed in UPM's 
Sustainability Policy Statement as a topic for continuous improvement, 
with energy management systems as the preferred measure.
Renewable energy targets and the phase-out of coal and peat support 
and specify policy commitments.
Actions 
E1-3
Based on the identified material topics, UPM has established the following 
sustainability focus areas related to climate change mitigation and 
adaptation: 
• Climate (with targets for energy efficiency, renewable energy, Scope 1 
and 2 CO2 emissions) 
• Forestry (with a target on forests' carbon sink)
• Product stewardship (with a target for a climate-positive product 
portfolio) 
• Responsible sourcing (with a target for Scope 3 emission reduction)
• Biodiversity (with targets for forest-related biodiversity); Refer to » E4-3 
Actions
For each of these focus areas, key actions are defined, and an action plan 
is available to achieve the Group-level targets. Refer to » E1-4 Targets 
related to climate change
The key actions, previous year's key actions, and future key actions are 
presented below. 
Climate: Energy-related actions
Key actions
UPM favors the use of renewable and other carbon-neutral energy 
sources and strives to continuously improve energy efficiency in all its 
operations. The company consistently develops its energy portfolio and 
manages the CO2-free electricity generation assets in UPM Energy. 
UPM contributes to the decarbonization of the electricity system by 
increasing the supply of reliable CO2-free electricity. UPM Energy is the 
second largest electricity supplier in Finland with assets in Finnish nuclear 
power and hydropower and, to a lesser extent, thermal power. 
Most of UPM's energy consumption is related to the production 
processes in the paper and pulp mills, where electricity and heat are 
needed for mechanical pulping, pumping, and drying. Steam and 
electricity are generated through combined heat and power (CHP) plants. 
In some mills, all or part of the required energy is produced by external or 
co-owned power plants.
Energy efficiency is improved across operations through audits, 
innovations, and investments. Improvements usually also lead to 
reductions in CO2 and other air emissions.
Actions in 2025
• UPM Energy’s new ultracapacitor at the Kuusankoski hydropower plant 
started up in November 2025. The investment, announced in August 
2024, triples UPM’s ultracapacitor capacity and further strengthens the 
ability of hydropower to balance the electricity grid.
• Solar power development was explored in Utti in Kouvola, and wind 
power in Western and Eastern Finland. Environmental impact 
assessments were ongoing in 2025.
Planned actions
• UPM will continue to develop and implement energy efficiency measures 
and to develop its energy portfolio to reach its 2030 targets.
• UPM will install a new type of heat pump at its Augsburg paper mill in 
Germany. The pump will use previously unused waste heat to generate 
process steam for paper production. UPM expects this innovation to 
reduce CO2 emissions in the steam generation process by 15%. The 
project is scheduled for completion in 2027.
• UPM Communication Papers launched a roadmap to accelerate 
climate action, for example, with long-term wind power agreements, 
power-to-heat solutions, and tailored activity plans for the mills.
Forestry: Forests as carbon sink
Key actions
UPM ensures that its forests and plantation areas continue to act as 
carbon sinks, remain resilient and diverse in changing climate conditions, 
and grow well for future generations. For forests to continue to act as 
carbon sinks, growth must exceed harvesting. The annual carbon sink of 
UPM-owned forests in Finland and the USA and owned and leased 
plantations in Uruguay is -1.9 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent (CO2eq) as 
the annual average over the past five years.
Actions in 2025
• Annual calculation of the carbon sink of UPM's own and leased forests 
and tree plantations in Finland, the USA, and Uruguay.
• UPM has worked with Natural Resources Institute Finland to improve 
soil carbon models for Uruguay using field data since 2022, and the 
field measurements in eucalyptus plantations continued in 2025.
• The calculations in Uruguay were switched to similar increment-drain 
method that is used for Finland. According to the Natural Resources 
Institute Finland, this is currently the most robust method for forest 
carbon accounting but the development work continues.
Planned actions
• Annual calculation of the carbon sink of UPM's own and leased forests 
and tree plantations in Finland, the USA, and Uruguay will continue.
UPM Financial Report 2025 159
UPM Annual Report 2025158 159
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Responsible sourcing: UPM's -30 by 30 
Program
Key actions
In 2022, UPM launched the -30 by 30 Program with the aim of reducing 
CO2 emissions related to purchased materials and logistics (Scope 3) by 
30%. As part of the program, suppliers are required to provide data on the 
carbon footprint of the goods and services they sell to UPM. This includes 
accounting for all relevant emissions from the supplier's upstream supply 
chain and operations.
Actions in 2025
• More suppliers, notably 56, were included in the data collection scope. 
The share of primary data for the most relevant raw materials is 99% 
for pulp, 89% for pigments and 51% for chemicals.  
• Category-specific roadmaps to achieve a 30% CO2 reduction have 
been implemented for all UPM business areas.
• A company-wide harmonized verification and benchmarking process 
for carbon footprint data from suppliers was implemented and tested 
under the -30 by 30 Program to ensure comparability and quality of 
supply chain emission calculations and also to learn and develop 
together with suppliers.
• UPM and its shipping partner Bore Ltd. have joined FuelEU Maritime 
compliance pooling service Ahti Pool with three modern dual-fuel 
vessels in May 2025. The three vessels now use bio-LNG contributing to 
UPM’s target to reduce fossil CO₂ emissions from its supply chain. 
Furthermore, UPM Plywood now uses renewable diesel for all its 
domestic road transport of plywood in Finland.
Planned actions
• Continue and further expand the annual collection of supplier carbon 
footprint data to assess development.
• Continued focus on implementing category-specific action plans to 
achieve CO2 reduction.
• Internal shadow carbon pricing will be explored to better compare and 
rank the carbon footprints of similar materials and suppliers.
Product stewardship: Climate-positive 
product portfolio
Key actions
The key action in this area is the investment in the world's first industrial-
scale biorefinery for wood-based biochemicals in Leuna, Germany. The 
renewable chemicals will have a CO2 product footprint well below that of 
fossil-based chemical products, as assessed by a third-party-reviewed 
Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). In addition, development work toward a 
climate-positive product portfolio will continue in several areas to meet 
the 2030 target. Refer to » E5-2 UPM Sustainable Product Design 
concept
Actions in 2025
• The construction works for the new biorefinery in Leuna, Germany, were 
completed. UPM started the production and sales of industrial sugars, 
the first commercial products in December.
• UPM Specialty Papers and Orkla Suomi piloted a new paper wrapper 
for Panda Milk chocolate. The new wrapper has been validated as 
recyclable in existing fibre recycling streams. For further examples of 
collaboration with customers refer to » E5-2 Actions. 
• At the beginning of 2025, UPM Caledonian paper mill hosted a trial 
carbon capture unit on site as part of Flue2Chem, a consortium of 
businesses looking to demonstrate a value chain from biogenic CO2 to 
finished consumer goods. The unit captured carbon from the flue gas 
of the site’s CHP biomass boiler.
Planned actions
• Sequential startup and ramp-up of the production will be proceeding at 
the new biorefinery in Leuna, Germany. The biorefinery is expected to 
reach full production in 2027.
• Evaluation of new ways to use renewable biomaterials, e.g. for textiles, 
nonwovens, hygiene products, and labels.
• Assessment of the opportunities offered by green hydrogen and 
biogenic CO2 to produce synthetic fuels and chemicals.
Resources
In general, climate-related activities are included in UPM's overall 
investment and resource planning. In addition, four green bonds issued 
since 2020, the latest one in 2024, have a strong focus on climate-related 
activities. The green bond portfolio of €2,350 million uses eligible assets 
and projects from the following categories of UPM's Green Finance 
Framework: 
• Sustainable forest and plantation management
• Climate-positive and circular bioeconomy-adapted products and 
solutions
• Renewable or CO2-free energy 
The Green Finance Framework has been established in accordance with 
the Green Bond Principles 2021 (with June 2022 Appendix I), and the 
APLMA, LMA and LSTA Green Loan Principles 2023. Project evaluation 
and selection is a key process to ensure that projects and assets financed 
by green finance instruments meet the eligibility criteria set out in the Use 
of Proceeds section. UPM has established a cross-company Green 
Finance Committee to coordinate, validate, implement and review the 
selection of eligible green projects and assets.
In addition, UPM has credit facilities which are linked to biodiversity 
and climate targets.
UPM's capital and operational expenditure on most significant 
climate-related activities are reported under » E1-1 Investment and 
funding and in the section » EU Taxonomy in the Sustainability 
Statement.
During 2025, no significant capital expenditures for environment-
related new projects were announced for 2026.
UPM Financial Report 2025 160
Targets
E1-4
Targets related to climate change
To steer its sustainability activities, UPM has set several targets and key 
performance indicators for its sustainability focus areas covering the 
three pillars of UPM's climate approach: forests; emissions reductions; 
and products. UPM's sustainability targets are developed by UPM by 
taking the views, wishes, and perspectives of external stakeholders from 
UPM's constant multi-stakeholder dialogue into account.
Sustainability focus area and 
key performance indicator Base year Base year value 2030 target
Target follow-up 2025 
(2024)
Responsible sourcing
Fossil CO2 emissions from materials and logistics (Scope 3) 2018 6.08 mt  -30 % -22% (-22%)
Forestry
Climate-positive land-use in UPM's own and leased forests * Since 2019  —  Forests as carbon sink 
(continuous)
  -1.9 (-2.1)  mt CO2eq 
(5-year average)
Biodiversity
Net-positive impact on forest biodiversity and developing a 
monitoring system **
Since 2018 (Finland), 
2022 (Uruguay)
Usually the previous 
year
Continuous 
improvement
Overall positive 
development  measured
Climate
Fossil CO2 emissions Scope 1 and 2 2015 6.80 mt  - 6 5  % -58% (-50%) 
Coal and peat usage 2020 3.3 TWh 0 TWh 2.6 (2.8) TWh
Annual energy efficiency improvement Since 2016  —  +1% (continuous) Not achieved
Share of renewable fuels 2015  6 7  % above 70% 
(continuous)
81% (80%)
Product stewardship
Climate-positive product portfolio Since 2019  —  Continuous 
improvement
Decarbonization solutions: 
7% (6%) of sales***
* Five-year annual average carbon sink; approximate value                *** Correction of percentage value (8%) for 2024
** Covers UPM's own forests in Finland and UPM's land in Uruguay
Targets related to climate-positive forestry and innovating products 
support UPM's development toward net-zero. However, methodologies 
are still being developed by the GHG Protocol and the Science Based 
Targets initiative (SBTi) to accurately calculate and formulate targets.
UPM's Scope 1, 2 and 3 fossil CO2 emissions reduction targets for 
2030 have been validated by the SBTi to be aligned with the 1.5 °C 
pathway as outlined in the Paris Agreement. The targets have been set 
using the SBTi's absolute contraction approach, so that they deliver 
absolute emissions reductions in line with global decarbonization 
pathways. 
The baseline years for Scope 1, 2 and 3 are considered representative 
for UPM‘s long-term targets on CO2 reduction. They reflect the long-term 
transition from a paper company to a material solution company with a 
broader product portfolio.
In 2025, UPM's combined Scope 1 and 2 target of 65% reduction in 
fossil CO₂ emissions was in line with achieving the 2030 target. The 
reduction of fossil CO2 emissions was -15% compared to 2024 and -58% 
compared to the base year of 2015. 
The Scope 3 target of a 30% reduction in fossil CO2 for purchased 
materials and logistics was also in line with the 2030 target, with a -22% 
reduction in fossil CO2 emissions compared to the base year 2018. Refer 
to » E1-3 Responsible sourcing: UPM's -30 by 30 Program  
These targets are supported by specific targets for increasing energy 
efficiency, the share of renewable fuels, and ending the use of coal and 
peat in UPM's power plants.
Refer to » E5-3 Targets for certified fibre target 
Refer to » E4-4 Targets for biodiversity target 
Refer to » G1-2 Responsible sourcing for sourcing targets 
Refer to » E1-5 Metrics for share of renewable fuels
UPM Financial Report 2025 161
UPM Annual Report 2025160 161
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Reporting principles for targets
GHG emissions reduction targets (Scope 1, 2 and 3) 
in detail
UPM's target for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions is a combined reduction 
of 65% from 2015 levels. Scope 1 includes UPM's on-site fossil CO2 
emissions from combustion processes. Calculation is based on the 
European Emissions Trading System, other national requirements, or 
official calculation factors. Scope 2 covers fossil CO2 emissions related to 
purchased electricity and steam. Electricity and steam purchases are 
calculated based on supplier information (market-based method). If the 
market-based data is unavailable, the residual mix is used, and if the 
residual mix is unavailable, regional or national grid factors are used. In 
cases where UPM has sold greenhouse gas claims (such as Guarantees 
of Origin) for energy used by UPM, the corresponding amount has been 
calculated using the national residual mix. GHG emissions other than 
CO2 are not material and are therefore not included in the target scope. 
The base year value of 6.8 million tonnes of CO2 (Scope 1: 57%, Scope 2: 
43%) for 2015 has been chosen as representative to follow up on the 
target during UPM's transition phase. 
UPM's Scope 3 target covers materials and logistics, which accounted 
for 67% of total Scope 3 emissions in the base year 2018. The base year 
value of 6.08 million tonnes CO2eq is calculated based on secondary data 
for emission factors. In recent years, the values are calculated based on 
data availability, using either secondary emission factors or the previous 
year's primary emission factors. Emissions are reported as CO2eq 
(including CH4 and N2O) using the global warming potential (GWP) 
values provided by the International Panel on Climate Change (IPPC). 
Refer to » E1-6 Metrics, Reporting principles for metrics for further 
information on Scope 1, 2 and 3 
Climate-positive land-use in UPM own and leased forests 
UPM defines climate-positive forestry as the act of managing forests or 
plantations to ensure that trees grow more than they are harvested, as 
well as working to improve forests' growth and to ensure the ability of 
forests to absorb more carbon and to adapt to the changing climate. 
Climate-positive forestry is not only about sinks but also about enhancing 
biodiversity as a means to adapt.
The positive impact has to be proven by monitoring and measuring 
the carbon balance and by maintaining the carbon sink. The Natural 
Resources Institute Finland (LUKE) calculates UPM's carbon sink based 
on the latest scientific knowledge and methodologies aligned with the 
International Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) requirements for national 
accounting for the land use, land use change and forestry (LULUCF) 
sector. Both trees and soil carbon are taken into account. Fossil CO2 
emissions caused by forest management activities (e.g. nurseries, 
planting, harvesting) shall be lower than the sink.  
The five-year average of UPM's carbon sink has to be a negative value, 
i.e. carbon removal, to achieve UPM's target of climate-positive forestry.
This is a UPM-specific term and definition as long as no international 
standard provides a commonly accepted definition.
Climate-positive product portfolio
Starting from 2024, UPM reports on this target based on the share of its 
decarbonization solutions out of total sales: biofuels; biochemicals; and 
CO2-free energy.
Overall, UPM considers the following of its current products to have a 
positive impact on the climate:
• Products that have a lower carbon footprint compared to fossil-based 
alternatives – such as biofuels and biochemicals,
• Products that substitute fossil-based energy - such as CO2-free 
nuclear energy and hydropower,
• Products that avoid greenhouse gas emissions by replacing fossil-
based products – such as biochemicals and timber, or 
• Products that act as temporary carbon storage – such as pulp, paper, 
plywood and timber over their life cycle.
The positive impact has to be proven by means such as life cycle 
analysis, availability of Guarantees of Origin, calculation of substitution 
and storage effects based on a study initiated by UPM and carried out by 
the SYKE and IFEU institutes (Fossil carbon emissions substitution and 
carbon storage effects of wood-based products, Reports of the Finnish 
Environment Institute, 22/2022). A pre-condition for the storage effect is 
the wood supply from sustainably managed forests which ensures a 
sustainable biogenic carbon cycle between land carbon storage and 
product storage.
This is a UPM-specific term and definition as long as no international 
standard provides a commonly accepted definition.
UPM Financial Report 2025 162
Expected decarbonization levers
UPM's path to net-zero is expected to be based on the decarbonization 
levers shown in the graph below as an indicative roadmap. UPM's long- 
term target setting baseline year is 2018.
UPM's fossil CO2 emissions are forecast to be reduced mainly through 
actions to improve energy efficiency, switch from fossil fuels to biogenic 
fuels or hydrogen, electrification of heat generation and other production 
processes, strategic investments and activities, as well as activities to 
reduce the CO2 emissions in the value chains. External effects such as the 
decarbonization of the electricity grid and economies as a whole, as well 
as general market developments, are also considered to play an 
important role. 
The remaining residual emissions could be more than balanced by the 
potential carbon sinks of UPM's forests, product-related impacts like 
temporary carbon storage, or other carbon removal options.
According to the SBTi, net-zero means reducing GHG emissions by at 
least 90% and neutralizing any residual GHG emissions through carbon 
removals on an ongoing basis. UPM's net-zero approach will be aligned 
with recognized international carbon accounting and assurance 
standards when these are finalized.  
UPM's pathway to net-zero (illustrative)
UPM Financial Report 2025 163
UPM Annual Report 2025162 163
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Metrics
Energy consumption and mix
E1-5
Most of the electrical and thermal energy is used for UPM's paper and 
pulp production. However, pulp mills produce more energy than they 
consume. UPM generates steam and electricity from combined heat and 
power (CHP) plants. Renewable fuels account for 81% (80%) of the fuel 
used on production sites. 
UPM's target is to stop using coal and peat for on-site energy 
generation by 2030. Currently, coal is the main fuel used at the UPM 
Changshu paper mill in China, where alternatives have been unavailable 
in the past. Peat is used in Finland.
Energy consumption and mix
MWh 2025 2024
Natural gas 3,900,000 4,200,000
Oil 1,400,000 1,500,000
Coal 2,500,000 2,500,000
Peat 100,000 260,000
Fossil recovered fuel 100,000 130,000
Total fossil fuels 8,100,000 8,600,000
Electricity from nuclear sources* 3,100,000 3,400,000
Other purchased electricity and heat 
(non-renewable) 1,100,000 1,300,000
Total non-renewable energy 
consumption 12,300,000 13,200,000
Renewable fuels 35,100,000 34,000,000
Purchased electricity and heat 
(renewable) 1,700,000 1,600,000
Self-generated non-fuel renewable 
energy (hydropower) 10,000 10,000
Total renewable energy consumption 36,800,000 35,600,000
Total energy consumption 49,100,000 48,800,000
Share of non-renewable sources in total 
energy consumption (%)  2 5  %  2 7  %
Share of renewable sources in total 
energy consumption (%)  7 5  %  7 3  %
*UPM's shareholdings in nuclear power generation are included with the amount used by 
UPM's production sites
Note: Sales of electricity and heat is not deducted but reported as products in E5-5 
Resource outflows.
In 2025, 84% of UPM’s purchased renewable electricity consisted of 
bundled contracts, while 16% consisted of unbundled electricity attribute 
claims, such as Guarantees of Origin and Renewable Electricity 
Certificates. Additionally, 1% of nuclear electricity used consisted of 
bundled contracts, while 99% consisted of unbundled Guarantee of Origin 
attributes.
Electricity generation through own power plants and shareholdings
MWh 2025 2024
CHP at production sites, renewable  5,000,000 4,600,000
CHP at production sites, non-renewable  1,200,000 1,200,000
Hydropower  800,000 1,000,000
Hydropower, shareholdings  2,200,000 2,200,000
Nuclear power, shareholdings  7,600,000 7,600,000
Thermal power, renewable, shareholdings  70,000 90,000
Thermal power, non-renewable, 
shareholdings  10,000 10,000
Total  16,900,000 16,700,000
In addition to energy generation on UPM's production sites, UPM is a 
significant player in the Nordic electricity market with its nuclear and 
hydropower holdings and, to a lesser extent, thermal power.
Energy intensity associated with activities in high climate impact 
sectors
MWh/€ m 2025 2024 % 2025/2024
Total energy consumption (MWh) 
per net revenue (€ m sales) 5,080 4,720  8  %
All UPM's business activities are considered to be in high climate impact 
sectors according to the NACE classification, either manufacturing or 
forestry.
Sales correspond to total sales as reported in the consolidated 
financial statements. Refer to » Note 2.2. Sales in the consolidated 
financial statements, Accounting policy
UPM Financial Report 2025 164
GHG emissions
E1-6
GHG emissions and 2030 target
2030 target
Retrospective Milestones and target years
2015 2018 2024 2025
% 2025 / 
2024 2025 2030
% 2025 / 
base year
Scope 1 GHG emissions *
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions (tCO2) 3,880,000 3,250,000 2,180,000 2,080,000  -5% 2,200,000 1,360,000  - 4 6  %
Scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated emissions 
trading schemes (%) 2,970,000 2,730,000 1,660,000 1,550,000  -7%  —  —  — 
Scope 2 GHG emissions *
Gross location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions (tCO2)  — 3,020,000 1,640,000 1,540,000  -6%  —  —  — 
Gross market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions (tCO2) 2,920,000 3,100,000 1,200,000 790,000  -34% 1,650,000 1,020,000  -73 %
Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions  *
Gross Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 GHG 
emissions (tCO2) 6,800,000 6,120,000 3,380,000 2,870,000  -15% 3,850,000 2,380,000  -58 %
Significant Scope 3 GHG emissions  **
Total Gross indirect (Scope 3) 
GHG emissions (tCO2eq)  — 9,040,000 8,170,000 7,680,000  -6%  —  —  — 
1 Purchased goods and services  — 4,230,000 2,970,000 2,920,000  -2% 3,490,000 2,960,000  - 3 1  %
2 Capital goods  — 50,000 160,000 110,000  -28%  —  —  — 
3 Fuel- and energy-related activities  — 670,000 520,000 460,000  -11%  550,000  470,000  - 3 1  %
4 Upstream transportation and distribution  — 1,180,000 1,250,000 1,340,000  8 %  970,000 830,000  1 3  %
5 Waste generated in operations  — 50,000 54,000 53,000  -1%  —  —  — 
6 Business travel  — 12,000 14,000 11,000  -20%  —  —  — 
7 Employee commuting  — 13,000 10,000 10,000  -4%  —  —  — 
10 Processing of sold products  — 2,830,000 3,200,000 2,780,000  -13%  —  —  — 
Total GHG emissions
Total GHG emissions (location-based) (tCO2/tCO2eq)  — 15,300,000 11,980,000 11,300,000  -6%  —  —  — 
Total GHG emissions (market-based) (tCO2/tCO2eq)  — 15,390,000 11,550,000 10,560,000  -9%  —  —  — 
* Base year 2015 for Scope 1 and Scope 2 targets for 2030
** Base year 2018 for Scope 3 target for 2030
Note: Setting and SBTi application of UPM's long-term targets will proceed in 2026, when the guidelines and tools for the FLAG sector will be available.
UPM Financial Report 2025 165
UPM Annual Report 2025164 165
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Biogenic CO2 emissions
t Biogenic CO2 2025 2024
Scope 1 12,140,000 11,740,000
Scope 2 150,000 170,000
Scope 3 (Category 11 Use of sold products) 390,000 300,000
Fossil CO2 emissions by country 2025
Scope 1 Scope 2
Finland Germany China Uruguay US UK Other
0
500,000
1,000,000
1,500,000
GHG intensity
t/€ m 2025 2024
% 
2025/2024
Total GHG emissions (location-based) 
per net revenue (tCO2eq/€ m sales) 1,170 1,160  1  %
Total GHG emissions (market-based) 
per net revenue (tCO2/€ m sales) 1,090 1,120  - 2  %
Sales correspond to total sales as reported in the consolidated financial 
statements. Refer to » Note 2.2. Sales in the consolidated financial 
statements, Accounting policies.
Reporting principles for metrics
UPM reports data on a consolidated basis. Refer to » ESRS 2, BP-1 for 
detailed information.
The share of associated companies is insignificant.
Scope 1
UPM's Scope 1 emissions include UPM's power plants, fuel used in 
production processes, and a share of jointly operated on-site power 
plants corresponding to UPM's energy supply. UPM does not report GHG 
emissions from mobile combustion and from facilities other than 
production sites and power plants. Scope 1 fossil and biogenic CO2 are 
calculated based on the respective fuel consumption. The calculation is 
based on the European Emissions Trading System, other national 
requirements, or official calculation factors. UPM only reports CO2 for 
Scope 1. Other Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions such as CH4 and N2O 
are not material. 
The European Emissions Trading Scheme and other national 
schemes require additional third-party verification from accredited 
auditors for Scope 1 emission. The verification might take place after the 
publication of this Statement. In the event of significant differences, this 
will lead to a restatement in next year's reporting.
Scope 2
For the Scope 2 calculation, UPM follows the principles and requirements 
of the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance.
UPM's Scope 2 emissions from purchased electricity are calculated 
using both the market-based and location-based approaches. The main 
method is the market-based approach, and the target follow-up is based 
on this method. If the market-based data is unavailable, the residual mix 
is used, and if the residual mix is unavailable, regional or national grid 
factors are used. The location-based calculation is based on MLC (former 
GaBi) factors.
In cases where UPM has sold greenhouse gas claims (such as 
Guarantees of Origin) for energy used by UPM, the corresponding 
amount has been calculated using the national residual mix. Scope 2 
emissions from purchased heat are calculated using the market-based 
approach, i.e. information from the supplier.
Scope 2 GHG emissions are only fossil CO2, as information on other 
GHG emissions is not yet available from suppliers, and the share of other 
GHG emissions is considered to be low for market-based electricity.
Scope 2 biogenic emissions are estimated based on location-based 
factors for electricity purchased from MLC (formerly GaBi), excluding 
sites using 100% nuclear electricity.
For UPM's pulp and paper mills in Europe, China, and Uruguay, the 
Scope 1 and 2 CO2 emissions are verified and reported in accordance with 
the EU's Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) by EMAS-
accredited auditors.
Scope 3
UPM's Scope 3 calculation follows the principles and requirements of the 
GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and 
Reporting Standard.
Information about biogenic CO2 emissions is unavailable for Scope 3 
categories, except for category 11 (Use of sold products), where UPM 
reports biogenic CO2 from the combustion of UPM's renewable diesel 
sales. Other GHG emissions from combustion are estimated to be 
insignificant.
UPM Financial Report 2025 166
Excluded categories
The following categories are excluded from UPM's inventory:
• 8 Upstream leased assets: Not a relevant category. According to 
several Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) studies carried out for the paper 
industry, infrastructure accounts for less than 1% of CO2 emissions for 
paper industry units. 
• 9 Downstream transport and distribution: UPM mainly produces 
intermediate products. Due to the scarcity of reliable information, the 
availability of adequate data, and UPM's influence on transport to end-
users, UPM only reports CO2 emissions related to the transport of 
UPM's (intermediate) products to customers. As these transports are 
purchased by UPM, their emissions are included in category 4 
(Upstream transport and distribution).
• 11 Use of sold products: Not a relevant category. UPM's products do not 
cause any fossil CO2 emissions during their use. As additional 
information, UPM reports on biogenic CO2 from the combustion of 
renewable diesel, while emissions of other greenhouse gases from 
combustion are estimated to be insignificant.
• 12 End-of-life treatment of sold products: As a producer of mostly 
intermediate products, reliable information, availability of adequate 
data, and the company's influence on this emission category is limited. 
These emissions are therefore excluded from the inventory.
• 13 Downstream leased assets: Not relevant, as covered by other 
categories.
• 14 Franchises: Not applicable, as UPM does not have any franchise 
activities.
• 15 Investments: Not applicable, as there are no investments with 
emissions that are not included in Scope 1 and 2. 
Included major categories
The following major categories are included in UPM's carbon inventory:
• 1 Purchased goods and services: If primary data from the supplier is 
unavailable, secondary data from ecoinvent is used to calculate 
emissions. Exceptions: IT-related emissions are evaluated using 
DEFRA factors per euro spent. Material categories included in the 
inventory are external pulp, wood, recovered paper, pigments and fillers, 
chemicals (for pulp, paper and label production), external paper and 
films. The estimated percentage of emissions calculated using data 
from suppliers is 40%. UPM's -30 by 30 Program to reduce CO2 
emissions related to logistics and purchased materials includes 
measures to receive accurate data from more suppliers. 
• 3 Fuel- and energy-related activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 
2): This category includes emissions from the extraction, production 
and transport of purchased fuels used on production sites. The figure is 
calculated by multiplying consumption by fuel type with CO2eq factors 
from ecoinvent or MLC (formerly GaBi) for purchased electricity. 
Emissions related to the production of biogenic fuels are not included 
in this category, as they are already included in the figures under other 
Scope 3 categories: for example, energy wood is included in category 1 
under wood. The percentage of emissions calculated using data from 
suppliers is 0%.
• 4 Upstream transportation and distribution: This category includes 
transport for the same raw materials reported in category 1, as well as 
product deliveries from UPM sites and storage facilities to customers, as 
these are under UPM's control. The calculation is based on calculated 
tonne-kilometers and primary emission data from suppliers or secondary 
emission factors from databases (GLEC, except UPM Adhesive Materials' 
which uses GaBi factors). For raw material transport, the calculation is 
based on actual quantities received and distances per mode of transport. 
Updates for transport distances vary between raw material categories 
and business areas. For product transport, both tonnes per transport 
mode and distances are actual figures. Only chemical transports are not 
calculated based on actual distances but are estimated using actual 
quantities received and an average CO2eq per quantity factor for pigment 
transport as a proxy. The estimated percentage of emissions calculated 
using data from suppliers is 40%. UPM's -30 by 30 Program to reduce 
CO2 emissions related to logistics and purchased materials includes 
measures to receive accurate data from more suppliers.
• 10 Processing of sold products: This category includes all UPM 
products, calculated based on production figures and various sources 
of emissions related to further processing. CO2eq for tissue and 
packaging paper production from pulp and industrial printing of paper 
is calculated based on ecoinvent data for electricity consumption for 
the respective processes and region-specific factors for electricity 
generation. CO2eq for printing at home or the office is estimated as the 
average electricity consumption of laser and ink jet printers and 
ecoinvent's region-specific factors for electricity generation. UPM's 
average CO2eq emissions from graphic paper and label production are 
used to estimate external processing. The average represents different 
regions. The processing of sold labels is based on assumptions and 
calculations for UPM Adhesive Materials' LCA from 2021. CO2eq 
emissions are based on assumptions and calculations from the 
verified Environmental Product Declarations for the processing of 
timber and plywood. The percentage of emissions calculated using 
data from customers: 0%.
Included minor categories
The following minor categories are included in UPM's carbon inventory as 
additional information:
• 2 Capital goods
• 5 Waste generated in operations
• 6 Business travel
• 7 Employee commuting
UPM Financial Report 2025 167
UPM Annual Report 2025166 167
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Carbon removals and use of carbon credits
E1-7
Carbon sink 
In 2025, the annual carbon sink from UPM own forests in Finland and in 
the USA and UPM own and leased plantations in Uruguay has averaged 
-1.9 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent over the past five years. This removal 
could be used to mitigate the residual emissions in UPM's net-zero 
pathway, presuming that carbon sinks will be accepted by credible 
international carbon accounting and assurance standards. 
Refer to » E1-4 Expected decarbonization levers 
Temporary carbon storage
UPM's wood-based products store carbon during their lifetime. UPM is 
calculating the annual change in carbon stock of its sold wood-based 
products such as paper products, pulp, sawn timber and plywood. In 
2025, the change in the annual carbon stock of wood-based products 
sold by UPM resulted in a carbon removal of -2.4 million tonnes of CO2. 
UPM estimates the temporary carbon storage based on a scientific 
report by the Finnish SYKE and the German IFEU institutes. Refer to 
» Reporting principles of metrics. Depending on the development of credible 
international carbon accounting and assurance standards, temporary 
carbon storage might be taken into account in UPM's net-zero pathway.
Carbon credits
In case UPM is offering carbon-neutral products for its customers, it is 
through credits from voluntary offsetting schemes, such as Gold Standard. 
The total amount in 2025 was less than  10,000 t CO2eq. The credits are 
used solely to offer carbon-neutral products to customers but are not 
contributing to UPM's CO2 emission reduction targets.
Reporting principles for metrics
Carbon sink
The Natural Resources Institute Finland (LUKE) calculates the carbon sink 
of UPM's own and leased forests and tree plantations in Finland, the USA, 
and Uruguay. The results are reported annually as a five-year average and 
the calculation is developed as best practice evolves. There is ongoing work 
to harmonize methodologies and make calculations more accurate. The 
previous year's figures are therefore not fully comparable. UPM aims to 
constantly improve the understanding of carbon balances. In 2022, a 
project started with LUKE to improve the soil carbon models for Uruguay 
with actual measurements on the ground. Field measurements in 
eucalyptus plantations began in 2023. An improved model for carbon 
calculations is used in UPM's carbon accounting since 2024.
Finland 
Changes in forest carbon stocks cover both the tree stock and the soil. 
Long-term measurement data and mathematical modeling from LUKE 
have been used in the calculation. Changes in the carbon stock of the 
stand are calculated as the difference between annual growth and 
depletion. The calculation has been performed separately for forests 
growing on mineral soils and peat soils. Estimates of stand growth are 
based on the National Forest Inventory (VMI), which is a five-year 
inventory cycle. The change in soil carbon stock has been calculated 
using the dynamic Yasso07 soil model.
Uruguay
Changes in forest carbon stocks cover both the tree stock and the soil. 
Measurement data and mathematical modeling from LUKE have been used 
in the calculation. Changes in the carbon stock of the stand are calculated 
as the difference between annual growth and depletion, based on annual 
increments in volume and harvest information from UPM. The change in soil 
carbon stock has been calculated using the dynamic Yasso07 soil model.
The U.S.
Carbon sinks on UPM-owned forests in the USA were calculated as the 
difference in carbon stored in growing stock between two time points in 
five years. The calculation complied with IPCC guidelines and was based 
on available data on annual totals of stem volumes by age classes. The 
total biomass carbon stock change was based on species-specific wood 
densities and species group-specific biomass expansion factors. The 
below-ground tree biomass was calculated based on ratios between 
above-ground and below-ground biomasses for specific species groups 
in compliance with IPCC guidelines.
See » upm.com for more information.
Temporary carbon storage
The temporary carbon storage of UPM's wood-based products is 
estimated based on a scientific report “Fossil carbon emission 
substitution and carbon storage effects of wood-based products” 
published in early 2022 by The Finnish Environment Institute (SYKE) and 
the German Institut für Energie- und Umweltforschung Heidelberg (IFEU). 
The study was initiated and funded by UPM.
The general method to estimate the magnitude of the defined carbon 
(C) stock in the HWP pool in use and its net changes involves the so-
called “HWP in use” method (IPCC 2019). UPM calculates the annual 
change in carbon stock based on the company's annual production (in 
terms of carbon content) of sawn wood, wood-based panels, pulp, and 
paper products, an estimate of half-life factor (number of years it takes to 
lose one-half of the material currently in the pool) for the respective 
product and an estimate of the decay constant. IPPC factors are used to 
estimate half-life and decay constant.
When carbon stocks of harvested wood products (HWPs) increase, 
the carbon is accounted as removal (negative emission). In the opposite 
situation, HWPs are accounted as carbon emissions.
UPM Financial Report 2025 168
Internal carbon pricing
E1-8
The internal carbon price is used as input to the long-term electricity price 
forecast. The long-term electricity price and internal carbon price are 
used to value UPM's existing assets and to plan investments.
The type of system is an implicit carbon price, and it is set to align with 
the price of the allowances under EU ETS. It is used for capital expenditure 
and risk and opportunity management to drive low-carbon investments, 
to identify and seize low-carbon opportunities, and for stress testing of 
investments.
UPM has fundamental power market models for both the Nordic and 
Continental European market areas. These models are used to forecast 
electricity prices several decades ahead. The models consider the 
transformation of the energy sector with climate change mitigation. The 
resulting power and commodity (fuel, CO2) prices are used in assessing 
the value of UPM's assets and in investment decisions. In addition to 
numerical electricity price forecasting, UPM Energy uses scenario 
analysis for strategic decision-making. 
Currently, these analyses are used up to 2045. They are also used in 
other businesses of UPM, such as paper businesses, as future carbon 
prices may have a significant impact on the profitability of current and/or 
planned assets. The internal carbon price is set to be in line with the EU 
ETS allowance price.
Anticipated financial effects
E1-9
For qualitative information about the financial impact of risks and 
opportunities, refer to » Report of the Board of Directors, section  
“Climate change” in chapter Risks; Refer to » Note 1.2 Basis of 
preparation in the consolidated financial statements, Climate-related 
risks. For more information about opportunities, see » UPM Annual 
Report's Strategy chapters.
UPM Financial Report 2025 169
UPM Annual Report 2025168 169
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

EU Taxonomy
EU Taxonomy is a sustainable finance classification system based on 
Regulation (EU) 2020/852, which defines criteria for economic activities 
that are considered environmentally sustainable. It represents an 
important step towards achieving carbon neutrality by 2050 in line with 
the EU’s climate and environmental goals. 
For the reporting year 2025, the EU Taxonomy disclosure 
requirements were amended to introduce a quantitative materiality 
threshold for the economic activities and new simplified reporting tables 
including  a new summary table. Economic activities representing less 
than 10% of turnover, capital expenditure (CapEx) or operating 
expenditure (OpEx) may be reported as non-material. These changes aim 
to reduce reporting complexity while maintaining transparency on 
taxonomy-eligible and aligned activities.
Assessment of Taxonomy eligibility and alignment
UPM annually conducts a thorough evaluation of the eligibility and 
alignment of activities with the requirements defined in the Taxonomy 
Regulation. The assessments are coordinated by UPM's Finance and 
Responsibility Teams with the support of several UPM functions and 
businesses. EU NACE Classification (Statistical Classification of 
Economic Activities in the European Community) is used as a reference 
for activity identification. 
In 2025, UPM identified seven material eligible economic activities of 
which five were Taxonomy-aligned. All the activities aim at a substantial 
contribution to climate change mitigation (CCM) and they meet specific 
technical screening criteria including criteria for 'do no significant 
harm' (DNSH) stated for each activity within the relevant Appendix to the 
delegated act. For all activities contributing to climate change mitigation, 
a physical climate risk assessment is needed pursuant to Appendix A to 
the Climate Delegated Act. Substantial contribution and  'do no 
significant harm' criteria were reviewed together with the sustainability 
experts from related UPM's businesses. 
 UPM continues to report activities 1.1 “Afforestation” and 1.3 “Forest 
management” as Taxonomy-eligible but not Taxonomy-aligned for the 
reporting year 2025. These activities consist of UPM's afforestation 
operations in Uruguay and  forest management and regeneration 
activities in Finland, Uruguay, and the USA. UPM considers that the 
mentioned activities fulfil all the alignment requirements, apart from the 
third-party verification (section 4. Audit). UPM has been searching for a 
partner who would fulfil Taxonomy certifier requirements and is capable 
of conducting the specific audit on Forest management. Until now, UPM 
has not been able to find a suitable service provider from the market and, 
hence reports its forest management activities as not aligned.
In 2025, UPM's material Taxonomy-aligned economic activities were the 
following:
3.6 “Manufacture of other low-carbon technologies” relates to 
technologies and products dedicated to the reduction of GHG emissions 
and includes mainly construction of UPM's new biochemicals biorefinery 
in Leuna, Germany.
4.5 “Electricity generation from hydropower” relates to the operation of 
electricity generation facilities that produce electricity from hydropower 
including UPM's own and co-owned hydropower plants.
4.13 “Manufacture of biogas and biofuels for use in transport and of 
bioliquids” relates to manufacture of biofuels from forest biomass and 
consists of UPM's biorefinery operations in Lappeenranta, Finland.
4.27 "Construction and safe operation of new nuclear power plants" 
relates to nuclear power plant Olkiluoto 3 through UPM’s shareholdings in 
Pohjolan Voima Oyj (PVO).
4.28 "Electricity generation from nuclear energy in existing 
installations" relates to nuclear power plants Olkiluoto 1&2 through UPM’s  
shareholdings in Pohjolan Voima Oyj (PVO).
The activities 4.27 "Construction and safe operation of new nuclear 
power plants" (Olkiluoto 3) and 4.28 "Electricity generation from nuclear 
energy in existing installations" (Olkiluoto 1&2) are identified through 
UPM's shareholdings in Pohjolan Voima Oyj (PVO) which has direct 
shareholdings in Teollisuuden Voima Oyj (TVO),  Refer to » Note 4.3 
Financial assets at FVOCI in the consolidated financial statements. TVO 
operates three nuclear power plants in Finland after Olkiluoto 3 started its 
production phase in 2023. Both nuclear activities 4.27 and 4.28 are 
Taxonomy-aligned based on the comprehensive assessment conducted 
by Teollisuuden Voima Oyj (TVO). 
Until 2024 reporting, the nuclear and fossil gas-related activities have 
been reported separately according to the Complementary Delegated 
Act. Following the changes in EU Taxonomy reporting requirements in 
2025, separate reporting templates for nuclear and fossil gas-related 
activities are no longer used. These activities are now disclosed within the 
common reporting templates.
In 2025, UPM classified the previously reported economic activities 
4.20 “Cogeneration of heat/cool and power from bioenergy” related to 
operation of installations used for cogeneration of heat/cool and power 
exclusively from biomass, biogas or bioliquids and 6.10 “Sea and coastal 
freight water transport, vessels for port operations and auxiliary activities”  
which relates to the sale of logistic services from leased vessels as non-
material based on the new materiality thresholds. In addition, UPM 
identified non-material activities 1.2 "Manufacture of medicinal products", 
related to its discontinued Biomedicals business, as well as 4.29 
“Electricity generation from fossil gaseous fuels” related to the Nordland 
CHP plant in Germany. These latter two activities have also been reported 
as non-material in previous years, as they had no impact on the KPIs.
Minimum Safeguards
Requirements for Minimum Safeguards shall ensure that a company not 
only supports environmental goals, but also adheres to international 
social standards and guidelines. UPM evaluated the requirements to be 
fulfilled by UPM's Code of Conduct and related business practices, 
measures, and commitments. UPM's due diligence and remedy 
processes consider social and employee matters, respect for human 
rights, anti-corruption and anti-bribery. Information on Principal Adverse 
Impacts (PAIs), as defined in the EU SFDR, are addressed in UPM's 
reporting, if relevant. UPM's practices and assessments in relevant areas 
are described in more detail in the following sections: 
• Commitment to international frameworks:  Refer to » S1-1 
• UPM Code of Conduct and other corporate policies:  Refer to 
» G1-1 
• Sustainability governance: Refer to » ESRS 2 GOV-1 
• Anti-corruption and anti-bribery:  Refer to » G1-3 
• UPM and human rights:  Refer to » S1-1 , » S2-1 , » S3-1
UPM Financial Report 2025 170
• Taxation: See UPM Annual Report, chapter "Contributing to society 
through taxes"
UPM's Taxonomy alignment 2025 and development 
compared to previous year
In 2025, UPM's total Taxonomy-aligned turnover was €689 million (€774 
million), 7% (7%) of total sales, Taxonomy-aligned CapEx was €284 
million (€324 million), 46% (40%)  of total CapEx and Taxonomy-aligned 
OpEx €88 (€71 million),  13%  (11%) of total OpEx as defined in Disclosures 
Delegated Act. Taxonomy-aligned turnover KPI remained unchanged in 
percentage terms compared to the previous year. Taxonomy-aligned 
CapEx KPI increased 6  percentage points, mainly due to a higher 
proportion of Leuna biochemicals biorefinery investment out of total 
CapEx. OpEx KPI increased by 2 percentage points mainly due to higher 
OpEx related to the Leuna biorefinery and nuclear related OpEx 
associated with the Olkiluoto 1 and 2 nuclear plants (activity 4.28). 
The Taxonomy Regulation is still under development and does not 
cover all sustainable economic activities. The majority of UPM´s products 
and services, such as pulp, paper, timber, plywood,  and label materials 
contributing to the turnover, are not included in the EU Taxonomy, thus 
the high proportion of Taxonomy non-eligible activities.  
KPIs and accounting policies
The eligibility and aligned-related financial information to be disclosed 
pursuant to Article 8 of the Taxonomy Regulation is presented in the 
following pages in the tables Template 1: Proportion of turnover, CapEx, 
OpEx from products or services associated with Taxonomy-eligible or 
Taxonomy-aligned economic activities - disclosure covering year 2025 
(summary KPIs) and Template 2: Proportion of turnover, CapEx, OpEx 
from products or services associated with Taxonomy-eligible or 
Taxonomy-aligned economic activities - disclosure covering year 2025 
(Activity breakdown), the latter of which is duplicated for Turnover, CapEx 
and OpEx KPIs separately. 
Turnover
CapEx
OpEx
UPM Financial Report 2025 171
7% 7%
1% 1%
92% 92%
Taxonomy-aligned activities
Taxonomy-eligible but not Taxonomy-aligned activities
Taxonomy-non-eligible activities
2025 2024
0%
50%
100%
46% 40%
11%
9%
43% 52%
Taxonomy-aligned activities
Taxonomy-eligible but not Taxonomy-aligned activities
Taxonomy-non-eligible activities
2025 2024
0%
50%
100%
13% 11%
4% 4%
83% 85%
Taxonomy-aligned activities
Taxonomy-eligible but not Taxonomy-aligned activities
Taxonomy-non-eligible activities
2025 2024
0%
50%
100%
UPM Annual Report 2025
170 171
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Template 1: Proportion of turnover, CapEx, OpEx from products or services associated with Taxonomy-eligible or Taxonomy-aligned economic 
activities - disclosure covering year 2025 (summary KPIs)
 Financial
 year 2025
KPI Total
Proportion
 of
 Taxonomy
 -eligible
 activities
Taxonomy
 -aligned
 activities
Proportion
 of
 Taxonomy
 -aligned
 activities
Breakdown by environmental objectives 
of Taxonomy-aligned activities
Proportion
 of
 enabling
  activities
Proportion
 of
 transitional
  activities
Not 
assessed
  activities
considered
 non-
material
Taxonomy
 -aligned
 activities in 
previous
financial 
year
2024
Proportion 
of 
Taxonomy
 -aligned
 activities in 
previous
financial 
year
2024
Climate Change
 Mitigation
Climate Change
 Adaptation
Water
Circular
 Economy
Pollution
Biodiversity
€ million % € million % % % % % % % % % % € million %
 Turnover 9,656 8% 689 7% 7% 4% 3% 92% 774 7%
 CapEx 621 57% 284 46% 46% 46% 43% 324 40%
 OpEx 668 17% 88 13% 13% 5% 8% 83% 71 11%
Template 2: Proportion of turnover, CapEx, OpEx from products or services associated with Taxonomy-eligible or Taxonomy-aligned economic 
activities - disclosure covering year 2025 (activity breakdown)
Turnover
 Reported KPI Turnover
 Financial year 2025
Economic Activities Code
Taxonomy -
eligible KPI 
(Proportion
 of
 Taxonomy-
 eligible
 Turnover)
Taxonomy- 
aligned KPI 
(monetary
value of
  Turnover)
Taxonomy-
 aligned KPI
 (Proportion 
of 
Taxonomy 
aligned 
Turnover)
Environmental objectives of Taxonomy-
aligned activities
Enabling
 activity
Transitional
 activity
Proportion of 
Taxonomy- 
aligned in 
Taxonomy- 
eligible
Climate Change
 Mitigation
Climate Change
 Adaptation
Water
Circular
 Economy
Pollution
Biodiversity
% € million % % % % % % % E T %
Forest management CCM 1.3 1%
Manufacture of other low-
carbon technologies CCM 3.6 0% 18 0% 0% E 100%
Electricity generation from 
hydropower CCM 4.5 1% 115 1% 1% E 100%
Manufacture of biogas and 
biofuels for use in transport and 
of bioliquids CCM 4.13 3% 267 3% 3% E 100%
Construction and safe operation 
of new nuclear power plants, for 
the generation of electricity or 
heat, including for hydrogen 
production, using best-available 
technologies CCM 4.27 1% 125 1% 1%
T
 100%
Electricity generation from 
nuclear energy in existing 
installations CCM 4.28 2% 164 2% 2%
T
 100%
Sum of alignment per objective 7%
Total KPI (Turnover) 8% 689 7% 7% 4% 3% 92%
UPM Financial Report 2025 172
CapEx
 Reported KPI CapEx
 Financial year 2025
Economic Activities Code
Taxonomy- 
eligible KPI 
(Proportion
 of
 Taxonomy-
 eligible 
CapEx)
Taxonomy- 
aligned KPI 
(monetary
value of 
CapEx)
Taxonomy-
 aligned KPI
 (Proportion 
of 
Taxonomy 
-aligned 
CapEx)
Environmental objectives of Taxonomy- 
aligned activities
Enabling
 activity
Transitional
 activity
Proportion of 
Taxonomy- 
aligned in 
Taxonomy- 
eligible
Climate Change
 Mitigation
Climate Change
 Adaptation
Water
Circular
 Economy
Pollution
Biodiversity
% € million % % % % % % % E T %
Afforestation CCM 1.1 1%
Forest management CCM 1.3 10%
Manufacture of other low-
carbon technologies CCM 3.6 42% 259 42% 42% E 100%
Electricity generation from 
hydropower CCM 4.5 2% 11 2% 2% E 100%
Manufacture of biogas and 
biofuels for use in transport and 
of bioliquids CCM 4.13 2% 14 2% 2% E 100%
Sum of alignment per objective 46%
Total KPI (CapEx) 57% 284 46% 46% 46% 81%
OpEx
 Reported KPI OpEx
 Financial year 2025
Economic Activities Code
Taxonomy- 
eligible KPI 
(Proportion
 of
 Taxonomy-
 eligible
 OpEx)
Taxonomy- 
aligned KPI 
(monetary
value of
  OpEx)
Taxonomy-
 aligned KPI
 (Proportion 
of 
Taxonomy- 
aligned 
OpEx)
Environmental objectives of Taxonomy- 
aligned activities
Enabling
 activity
Transitional
 activity
Proportion of 
Taxonomy- 
aligned in 
Taxonomy- 
eligible
Climate change
 Mitigation
Climate change
 Adaptation
Water
Circular
 Economy
Pollution
Biodiversity
% € million % % % % % % % E T %
Forest management CCM 1.3 4%
Manufacture of other low-
carbon technologies CCM 3.6 3% 21 3% 3% E 100%
Electricity generation from 
hydropower CCM 4.5 1% 4 1% 1% E 100%
Manufacture of biogas and 
biofuels for use in transport and 
of bioliquids CCM 4.13 1% 9 1% 1% E 100%
Construction and safe operation 
of new nuclear power plants, for 
the generation of electricity or 
heat, including for hydrogen 
production, using best-available 
technologies CCM 4.27 5% 34 5% 5% T 100%
Electricity generation from 
nuclear energy in existing 
installations CCM 4.28 3% 20 3% 3% T 100%
Sum of alignment per objective 13%
Total KPI (OpEx) 17% 88 13% 13% 5% 8% 77%
UPM Financial Report 2025 173
UPM Annual Report 2025172 173
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Accounting Policy
UPM consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with 
IFRS Accounting Standards as adopted by the EU and IFRIC 
Interpretations. UPM has calculated the KPIs using the financial 
information presented in the Group consolidated financial statements 
2025. In determining the eligible and aligned turnover, any specific 
fragments of production inputs, such as the use of sustainable raw 
material or energy, have not been included in the eligible turnover if the 
main activity is not included in the Taxonomy. However, for activities that 
are used both internally and, to some extent, to generate external 
turnover, the CapEx and OpEx are not split in relation to internal and 
external use but fully allocated to economic activity that leads to revenue. 
The definitions of CapEx and OpEx key performance indicators are based 
on definitions set out in the Disclosures Delegated Act. A clear reporting 
structure prevents double counting and ensures that turnover, CapEx, 
and OpEx related to assets or processes associated with Taxonomy-
aligned economic activities are counted only once. Whenever an 
individual investment is considered Taxonomy-aligned, this proportion of 
CapEx is not further allocated to a Taxonomy-aligned economic activity, 
to avoid double counting. Similarly, OpEx related to purchased outputs 
that are already considered under OpEx associated with Taxonomy-
aligned activities is not further counted. The Group has no economic 
activities contributing to multiple climate or environmental objectives.
Turnover 
UPM has calculated turnover, as defined in the Disclosures Delegated 
Act, based on the same accounting principles that apply for revenue in 
IFRS Accounting Standards, i.e., covering all amounts derived from the 
sale of products and services during ordinary activities. Total turnover 
corresponds to total sales as reported in the Group consolidated financial 
statements. Refer to » Note 2.2. Sales in the consolidated financial 
statements, Accounting policies. Taxonomy-eligible and -aligned turnover 
includes only revenue from sales of products and services generated from 
activities that are included in the Taxonomy. 
In 2025, the numerator of the turnover KPI is defined as the turnover 
derived from products and services associated with Taxonomy-aligned 
economic activities: 
3.6 “Manufacture of other low-carbon technologies” generates turnover  
from the sale of products of the new biorefinery in Leuna, Germany, as it 
started its first customer deliveries in late 2025. 
4.5. “Electricity generation from hydropower” generates turnover from the 
sale of electricity generated by UPM's own or co-owned hydropower plants.
4.13. “Manufacture of biogas and biofuels for use in transport” generates 
turnover on sale of wood-based renewable diesel and naphtha for 
transport and petrochemicals.
4.27. "Construction and safe operation of new nuclear power plants" 
generates turnover from UPM's electricity sales to external customers 
related to nuclear power plant Olkiluoto 3.
4.28. "Electricity generation from nuclear energy in existing installations" 
generates turnover from UPM's electricity sales to external customers 
related to nuclear power plant Olkiluoto 1 and 2.
Turnover from sale of wood and wood-based biomass such as logs, 
pulpwood and forest residues from UPM's own and leased forests to third-
party customers and sale of forestry services to private forest owners (1.3. 
“Forest management”) is Taxonomy-eligible but not Taxonomy-aligned.  
CapEx
UPM has included in CapEx, as defined in the Disclosures Delegated Act, 
additions to tangible and intangible assets, before any depreciation, 
impairments, amortization charges, and fair valuations during the 
financial year, as accounted for in accordance with IAS 16 Property, Plant 
and Equipment, IAS 38 Intangible assets, IAS 41 Agriculture and IFRS 16 
Leases. CapEx corresponds to cash payments to acquire fixed and forest 
assets in the Consolidated cash flow statement adjusted with amounts 
accrued but not paid at the end of the reporting period. CapEx includes 
also acquisition of businesses and subsidiaries, excluding goodwill, and 
additions to leased assets. Refer to » line items Capital expenditure, 
Additions to forest assets and Acquisition of businesses and 
subsidiaries, net of cash acquired in consolidated cash flow statement, 
and Leases in Note 5.2. Net debt in the consolidated financial statements. 
Capital expenditure presented in the UPM Annual Report under » Other 
financial information differs from Taxonomy-CapEx as it excludes 
additions to forest assets and leased assets and includes investments in 
shares and goodwill acquired in business acquisitions.
In 2025, the numerator consists of the following categories of 
Taxonomy-aligned CapEx: 
3.6 “Manufacture of other low-carbon technologies” CapEx relates to 
investment in the new-generation biorefinery in Leuna, Germany. UPM is 
reporting all CapEx related to ongoing investment in new-generation 
biorefinery as Taxonomy-aligned CapEx. In reporting year 2024, UPM 
interpreted the Leuna investment as a Capex plan (1.1.2.2. (b) of Annex I) 
instead of capital expenditure relating to assets or processes already 
associated to environmentally sustainable economic activities, as the 
Leuna biorefinery was not yet in operational stage. In 2025,  the Leuna 
biorefinery produced its first commercial products and thus reporting of 
its Taxonomy-eligible and -aligned Turnover was initiated. Therefore, in  
2025,  UPM reported the Leuna investment as capital expenditure instead 
of CapEx plan. The Leuna biorefinery is expected to reach full production 
in 2027 and total CapEx for the investment is estimated to be €1,335  
million.   
4.5. “Electricity generation from hydropower” CapEx includes 
refurbishment of hydropower plants. 
4.13. “Manufacture of biogas and biofuels for use in transport” CapEx 
includes refurbishment of Lappeenranta biorefinery. 
CapEx related to investments on purchased and leased land for 
afforestation (1.1. “Afforestation”), and capitalized forest regeneration 
costs such as planting, growing of seedlings and operation of nurseries,
(1.3. “Forest management”) is Taxonomy-eligible but not Taxonomy-
aligned.
UPM is not reporting any CapEx related to the nuclear activities “4.27 
"Construction and safe operation of new nuclear power plants" and 4.28 
"Electricity generation from nuclear energy in existing installations", as 
due to the nature of its shareholding ownership in PVO, investments 
related to nuclear are not included in the total UPM's Capital expenditure 
as presented in the UPM Annual Report,  Refer to » Note 4.3 Financial 
assets at FVOCI in the consolidated financial statements.
UPM Financial Report 2025 174
OpEx
UPM has included in OpEx, as defined in the Disclosures Delegated Act, 
research and development costs as accounted for in accordance IAS 38 
Intangible assets, short-term lease expenses as accounted for in 
accordance IFRS 16 Leases, and costs of day-to-day servicing (i.e., repairs 
and maintenance) of property, plant, and equipment as accounted for in 
accordance IAS 16. Costs of day-to-day servicing of property, plant, and 
equipment include direct salaries of maintenance personnel, 
maintenance materials, and maintenance services outsourced. In 
addition, as UPM owns a significant amount of forest assets, it considers 
forest management and support services as day-to-day servicing of 
assets as defined in the EU Disclosures Delegated Act. OpEx is included in 
the consolidated income statement line item Costs and expenses, Refer 
to » Note 2.3. Operating expenses and other operating income in the 
consolidated financial statements.
In 2025, the numerator consists of the following categories of Taxonomy-
aligned OpEx: 
3.6. “Manufacture of other low-carbon technologies” includes 
maintenance and R&D costs related to biochemicals biorefinery.
4.5. “Electricity generation from hydropower” OpEx includes maintenance 
costs of hydropower plants.
4.13. “Manufacture of biogas and biofuels for use in transport” OpEx 
includes maintenance costs of biofuels production facility in 
Lappeenranta and next generation biofuels refinery R&D costs.
4.27 "Construction and safe operation of new nuclear power plants" 
includes UPM's share of day-to-day servicing costs related to property, 
plant, and equipment in Olkiluoto 3. 
4.28 "Electricity generation from nuclear energy in existing installations" 
includes UPM's share of day-to-day servicing costs related to property, 
plant, and equipment in Olkiluoto 1 and 2. 
OpEx related to forestry infrastructure maintenance, forest fire 
fighting, protection, and environmental activities (1.3. “Forest 
management”) is Taxonomy-eligible but not Taxonomy-aligned.
UPM Financial Report 2025 175
UPM Annual Report 2025174 175
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

 
Pollution (ESRS E2)
UPM pays close attention to the impact of its operations on the air, climate, water, and soil and aims to minimize 
any adverse effects. This means reducing emissions to air and water, avoiding emissions to soil, and minimizing 
both non-hazardous and hazardous waste.
Reduction in acidifying flue gases 
(NOX/SO2) achieved for a UPM 
average product
Reduction in chemical oxygen 
demand (COD) achieved for UPM's 
average product 
-20% -43%
41 environmental deviations from permit, 
contractual, or other legal obligations
2,100 preventive observations 
and near misses reported 
Compared to 2015 
(2030 target: -20%)
Compared to 2008
 (2030 target: -40%)
UPM Financial Report 2025 176
Policies
E2-1
UPM's Code of Conduct expresses the company's respect for people, the 
environment, and ethical business practices, and includes its 
commitment to minimizing negative environmental impacts. The Code is 
complemented by UPM's Sustainability Policy Statement, which 
addresses the issue in more detail. The UPM Supplier and Third-Party 
Code sets out minimum requirements for the value chain. Refer to » G1-1 
Policies for more information about these policy documents.
In addition, specific aspects are addressed in the following policy 
documents: 
• UPM Sustainable Supply Chain Program; Refer to » G1-2 Responsible 
sourcing
• UPM Clean Run Standard
• UPM Chemical Management Standard
• UPM Risk Management Standard
• UPM Incident Investigation and Reporting Standard
UPM's high-level commitment to mitigating, preventing, and controlling 
negative impacts related to pollution is stated in the UPM Code of 
Conduct: "We aim to minimize any direct or indirect negative impacts on 
the environment or people in our sphere of influence. On an ongoing 
basis, we measure and assess the direct and indirect environmental risks 
and impacts of our operations and promote the use of the best available 
techniques. We expect our suppliers and business partners to share our 
commitment to the environment." This is complemented by UPM's 
Sustainability Policy Statement: "UPM pays close attention to the impact 
of its operations on the air, climate, water, and soil and aims to minimize 
any adverse effects. This means reducing emissions to air and water, 
avoiding emissions to soil, and minimizing both non-hazardous and 
hazardous waste."
All relevant pollutants and substances from UPM's operations are 
covered by UPM's policies.
The reduction targets for most material pollutants at Group level, NOX, 
SO2, COD and landfill waste, are included in UPM's sustainability targets 
for 2030. 
UPM's commitment to the continuous improvement of environmental 
impacts is specified in the UPM Sustainability Policy Statement.
UPM Clean Run Standard
The UPM Clean Run Standard formalizes UPM's Clean Run concept. It 
aims to ensure that all businesses and operations of UPM implement the 
processes falling under Clean Run as intended in UPM's Sustainability 
Policy Statement, and to ensure continuous improvement of 
environmental performance and compliance with all applicable laws and 
other regulatory obligations. Refer to » E2-2 UPM Clean Run concept
UPM Chemical Management Standard
The UPM Chemical Management Standard describes the minimum 
requirements for chemical risk assessment, approval, and safe handling. UPM 
complies with the relevant international and national legislation applicable to 
the production site and for the product. In addition, chemicals approved for 
use should have minimal negative effects on human health, the environment, 
and the safety of UPM's products. The least harmful alternative should be 
selected. Chemicals that are classified as or contain a component that is fatal 
to humans, carcinogenic, mutagenic, harmful to reproduction, toxic for single 
organs, skin or respiratory sensitizing, toxic to aquatic life with chronic effects, 
hazardous to the ozone layer, persistent or that are on the list of substances 
of very high concern (SVHC) of the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA), or 
that are considered to have endocrine disrupting properties, must not be used 
if technically feasible safer alternatives are available.
UPM Risk Management Standard
The purpose of the UPM Risk Management Standard is to describe the 
company's HS&E (Health and Safety & Environment) risk management 
process in detail. The standard provides a systematic and standardized 
approach for conducting risk assessments, which are recorded in UPM's 
One Safety tool. 
The standard defines that management at all UPM units (sites, mills, 
offices, etc.) are expected to: 1. Identify all foreseeable hazards and 
evaluate their risk levels with respect to health, safety, environment, 
products, and company reputation; 2. Effectively control risks to a level as 
low as reasonably practicable; 3. Effectively communicate risk 
assessment findings to all relevant employees so they can work safely 
and in an environmentally responsible way; 4. Review and prioritize the 
risks in their area of responsibility.
Further standards such as the UPM Process Safety Standard or UPM 
Management of Change Standard are also addressing aspects relevant 
for the management of environmental performance. 
UPM Incident Investigation and 
Reporting Standard
The UPM Incident Investigation and Reporting Standard applies to HS&E. 
It defines UPM's effective incident investigation process to include how to 
notify, investigate, and assign preventive and corrective actions, report the 
findings, and share the lessons learned with other UPM organizations. The 
UPM incident investigation process starts when an incident occurs or is 
detected. It follows the procedures defined in the standard according to 
the severity of the incident. Immediately following an incident, the line 
organization's first task is to stabilize the situation, limit any further 
consequences, and make the incident site safe and secure.
UPM Financial Report 2025 177
UPM Annual Report 2025176 177
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Actions
E2-2
Based on UPM's identified material topics, UPM has set the following 
focus areas and Group-level targets related to pollution: 
• Climate (with a target for emissions to air – NOX and SO2) 
• Water (with a target for emissions to water – COD)
• Product stewardship (with a target for share of ecolabeled products); 
Refer to » E5-2 Actions and E5-3 Targets
• Waste (with a target for landfill waste); Refer to » E5-2 Actions and E5-3 
Targets  
• Responsible sourcing (with a target on spend covered by UPM Supplier 
and Third-Party Code); Refer to » G1-2 Targets
Action plans have been established to achieve the Group-level targets, as 
well as other relevant areas for continuous improvement. The key actions, 
previous year's key actions, planned key actions and overarching 
concepts are presented below. 
UPM Clean Run concept 
The company-wide Clean Run concept, which was launched in 2012 and 
has since been developed to cover all operations, is a holistic 
environmental management system that aims to improve UPM's 
environmental performance by bringing environmental issues to the 
forefront of everyday work and enabling a consistent way of working in all 
operations. 
 All production sites have a certified ISO 14001 environmental 
management system except two Adhesive Materials sites, one of which is 
preparing for the certification and the other site was announced to be 
closed. This  is the basis for the Clean Run concept, which sets more 
precise requirements for UPM's common practices than the ISO standard. 
According to these requirements, all sites systematically follow up on 
deviations, proactively report observations and near misses, conduct 
environmental walks and discussions, share best practices, and prepare 
detailed risk assessments. 
UPM regularly conducts "Clean Run and long-term environmental 
targets reviews" to ensure the implementation of the standard and 
provide support. The relevant production sites and business areas 
develop roadmaps for achieving the Group's environmental targets for 
2030, and take actions accordingly.
In 2025, approximately 1,700 (1,900) environmental walks were 
organized, and 2,100 (2,200) preventive environmental observations and 
near misses were reported. In 2025, the number of environmental non-
conformances increased to a total of 41 (35) deviations from permit, 
contractual or other legal obligations. 9 cases were related to air, 27 to 
water, 3 to soil and water, and 2 to plantation operations. All deviations 
from environmental permit obligations were reported to the authorities 
and, where relevant, to local stakeholders. In all cases, appropriate 
measures were taken to normalize the situation and will be taken to 
prevent similar occurrences. No major environmental incident occurred in 
2025. 
Reducing emissions to water
Key action
Water is an essential resource for pulp and paper mills. All wastewater 
from UPM's pulp and paper production is cleaned in both mechanical 
and biological effluent treatment processes, either at an external or own 
wastewater treatment plant. The purified water is usually returned to the 
same watershed from which it was taken. 
UPM has chosen COD (chemical oxygen demand) as the most 
appropriate indicator for emissions to water from pulp and paper 
production. A Group-level reduction target has been set, to be achieved 
by 2030. Pulp and paper mills have respective specific plans to achieve 
their reduction targets for COD in their treated wastewater by 2030. 
In 2025, the specific emissions of COD per tonne of paper increased 
by 5% compared to the previous year, but decreased by -30% compared 
to the target base year 2008. The specific emissions of COD per tonne of 
pulp increased slightly by 1% compared to the previous year, but 
decreased by -53% compared to the target base year 2008. 
Refer to » E2-3 Targets for the follow-up of the target at Group level 
and an explanation of COD.
UPM was the first Finnish freight carrier to commit to the Ship Waste 
Action Initiative of the Baltic Sea Action Group. In Finland, from the spring 
of 2022 onwards, UPM has discharged ship-generated wastewater on 
land where its nutrients can be utilized.
Actions in 2025
• Several actions focused on reducing the risk of soil or groundwater 
pollution. At UPM Jämsänkoski, Finland, over 500 meters of wastewater 
pipelines were renewed. Improvements continued at the chemical 
unloading areas of several sites (e.g. Plywood mills and UPM Kaukas).
• At UPM Nordland Papier in Germany, a project to separate the 
dewatering of biosludge and fibre sludge started at the site's 
wastewater treatment plant in 2024. A COD reduction of 20% is 
expected due to this measure, besides the improved sludge recycling 
options and reduction of transportation. The project was finalized in 
2025.
• Plywood Pellos site increased the capacity and reliability of the 
wastewater treatment plant and updated the wastewater treatment 
plant diffusers. This resulted in three tonnes of COD load reduction per 
day.
• The primary clarifier at UPM Jämsänkoski, Finland, was renewed and 
taken into use. This was essential for the efficiency of the entire 
wastewater treatment process.
• UPM Rauma, Finland, invested in a new dissolved air flotation (DAF) 
unit in the chemi-mechanical pulping area. The investment improves 
material efficiency by separating a relevant amount of solids from the 
wastewater, which will decrease the COD load to treatment plant.
Planned actions
• UPM will continue to develop and implement measures to reach its 
2030 targets.
UPM Financial Report 2025 178
Reducing emissions to air
Key action
UPM's main source of air emissions is energy generation. The quantity 
and quality of air emissions depend on the amount of energy produced at 
power plants or boilers, the burning conditions, and the fuels used. The 
choice of fuels, combustion technology, and flue gas purification are ways 
of reducing these emissions. Boilers using biomass-based fuels, oil, and 
coal are equipped with filter systems. Acidifying flue gases (NOX and SO2) 
have been identified as having the most material impact, and a target to 
reduce these air emissions by 2030 has been set. 
In 2025, the specific emissions of acidifying flue gases per tonne of 
paper increased by 7% compared to the previous year, but decreased by 
-28% compared to the target base year 2015. The specific emissions of 
acidifying flue gases per tonne of pulp were decreased by -2% compared 
to the previous year and decreased by -10% compared to the target base 
year 2015. Refer to » E2-3 Targets for the follow-up of the target at Group 
level.
Transportation contributes to air emissions to a smaller extent. In 
recent years, UPM has invested in seven vessels which run on dual fuels, 
which means a combination of traditional marine gas oil and liquefied 
natural gas (LNG). When fueled with LNG, their CO2 emissions are 25% 
lower than those of commonly used marine gas oil. In addition, nitrogen 
oxides (NOX) are cut by about 85%, and sulphur oxides (SOx) by 
approximately 99%. Emissions of soot particles also decrease by 99%.
Actions in 2025
• UPM joined a 5-year research program led by VTT and RISE Research 
Institutes of Sweden on emission-free pulping in 2024. The program 
aims to significantly reduce biomass burning and increase the material 
yield from wood from approximately 50% to around 70%. In 2025, UPM 
joined research to better understand the structure of fiber cell wall and 
to develop new ways to liberate fiber from wood matrix.
• At the UPM Kaukas pulp mill’s recovery boiler, the third of its four 
electrostatic precipitators (ESPs) was renewed and taken into use in 
October, after the renewal of two ESPs in 2023. This will further improve 
air quality, especially by reducing dust emissions.
Planned actions
• UPM will continue to develop and implement measures to reach its 
2030 targets. 
Refer to » E5-2 Actions for actions related to waste and chemicals.
Resources 
In 2025, UPM's environmental investments totaled €12 million
(€20 million). The largest investments in 2025 were made in improving 
energy efficiency, reducing CO2 emissions, and ensuring environmental 
compliance.
UPM's environmental costs, which were mainly attributable to effluent 
treatment and waste management, totaled €106 million (€111 million), 
including depreciation.
During 2025, no significant capital expenditures for new environment-
related projects were announced.
Refer to line item » Capital expenditure in Consolidated cash flow 
statement 
Refer to line item » Costs and expenses in Consolidated income 
statement 
Refer to » Note 2.3 Operating expenses and other operating income in 
the consolidated financial statements  
UPM Financial Report 2025 179
UPM Annual Report 2025178 179
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Targets
E2-3
Targets related to emissions 
To manage its sustainability activities, UPM has set several targets and key 
performance indicators for its sustainability focus areas covering emissions 
from production sites (covered under Climate, Water, and Waste) and the 
supply chain. These targets support UPM's policy objective of mitigating, 
preventing and controlling negative impacts related to pollution (UPM Code 
of Conduct). UPM's sustainability targets are developed taking the views, 
wishes, and perspectives of external stakeholders from UPM's constant 
multi-stakeholder dialogue into account.
Sustainability focus area and key performance indicator
Base
year
Base year 
value 2030 target
Target follow-up 
2025 (2024)
Climate, including air emissions
Acidifying flue gases (NOX/SO2) for an average UPM product 2015 100% ** -20% -20% (-19%)
Water
Chemical oxygen demand (COD) for an average UPM product * 2008 100% *** -40% -43% (-44%)
Waste
Process waste sent to landfills or to incineration without energy recovery 2015 122,000 dry 
tonnes
0 tonnes 101,000 (97,000) tonnes, 
82% (83%) of UPM's process 
waste recovered or recycled
Responsible sourcing
UPM total spend covered by UPM Supplier and Third-Party Code 2015 79% >80% 
(continuous)
86% (91%)
* Relevant for pulp and paper production
** Calculation: minus 20% target for weighted average of reductions to be achieved for specific emissions of Pulp, Paper, Plywood, Biofuels, and Timber, with base year as 100%
*** Calculation: minus 40% target for weighted average of reductions to be achieved for specific emissions of Pulp and Paper, with base year as 100%
UPM's sustainability targets for 2030 are followed up and reported at 
Group level at least annually. 
The target parameters chosen for emissions to air, water, and soil are 
the most relevant to be followed up for UPM's main production areas. 
They are evaluated and set based on historical development, known 
investment projects and technology developments, and potential local 
impacts. They aim to go beyond actual permit values which are set by the 
authorities considering the local circumstances. If available, EU Ecolabel 
criteria or the reference values of BAT (best available techniques) are also 
taken into account when setting targets. 
Group-level targets are broken down into business areas and sites 
based on detailed allocation in the case of COD, used as an indicative 
target for all business areas in case of acidifying flue gases, or are a generic 
target for all sites in the case of UPM's "zero waste to landfill" target.
UPM has chosen COD (chemical oxygen demand) as the most 
appropriate indicator for the effluent load from pulp and paper 
production. Other units do not have significant emissions to water. The 
effluent, or wastewater, of pulp and paper mills includes organic 
substances which consume oxygen during biodegradation. The low 
oxygen content in water can have an adverse effect on plant and animal 
life. COD refers to the amount of oxygen consumed in the complete 
chemical oxidation of organic compounds. 
UPM's target for acidifying flue gases aims to reduce emissions of 
NOX and SO2 from its energy generation and production processes.
Progress toward the Group-level targets for effluent load (COD) and 
acidifying flue gases (NOX and SO2) is ahead of schedule. The 2030 target 
for COD was achieved in 2024 and the 2030 target for acidifying flue 
gases was achieved in 2025. 
Refer to » E5-3 Targets for the waste target and Refer to » G1-2 Targets 
for the sourcing target.
A potential risk for soil pollution may come from landfill areas. UPM's 
target is to have zero process waste going to landfill by 2030. This is an 
absolute target for all UPM's business areas. Refer to » E5 Resource Use 
and Circular Economy for details on waste amounts and handling.
UPM follows the legal requirements of the EU (REACH) and other local 
legislation in countries where it has production sites regarding the use of 
chemicals and especially of substances of concern and high concern. 
The set targets are voluntary and in addition to legal requirements.
UPM Financial Report 2025 180
Metrics
E2-4
Emissions to air, water and soil
The tables below include the amount of pollutants listed in the European 
Pollutant and Transfer Register (E-PRTR; Annex II of Regulation (EC) No 
166/2006) from production sites for which the applicable threshold value 
is exceeded. This means that the amounts only cover these production 
sites and their respective emissions. 
For the most relevant parameters, UPM also reports total amounts of 
the emissions considered most material for UPM, as well as common 
effluent quality parameters for the pulp and paper industry that are not 
listed in the E-PRTR.
Emissions to air (E-PRTR scope*)
t, kg or g 2025
Carbon monoxide (CO), t 5,500
Chlorine and inorganic compounds (as HCl), t 20
PCDD + PCDF (dioxins + furans) (as Teq), g 10
Chromium and compounds (as Cr) —
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) —
Particulate matter (PM10)  — 
Arsenic and compounds (as As)  — 
Cadmium and compounds (as Cd)  — 
Copper and compounds (as Cu)  — 
Mercury and compounds (as Hg)  — 
Nickel and compounds (as Ni)  — 
Lead and compounds (as Pb)  — 
Zinc and compounds (as Zn)  — 
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs)  — 
Fluorine and inorganic compounds (as HF)  — 
* Scope includes only UPM sites' emissions above the threshold which is specified in the EU's 
E-PRTR
Emissions to air (total amount)
t 2025 2024
Nitrogen oxides (NOX) 8,800 8,700
Sulphur dioxide (SO2) 760 780
Particulates (total) 780 680
Non-methane volatile organic compounds 
(NMVOC)
1,000 400
Emissions to water (E-PRTR scope*)
t, kg or g 2025
Chlorides (as total Cl), t 14,600
Zinc and compounds (as Zn), kg 5,600
Copper and compounds (as Cu), kg 1,600
Nickel and compounds (as Ni), kg 570
Arsenic and compounds (as As), kg 280
Lead and compounds (as Pb), kg 130
Chromium and compounds (as Cr), kg 110
Cadmium and compounds (as Cd), kg 50
Mercury and compounds (as Hg), kg 2
PCDD + PCDF (dioxins + furans) (as Teq), g 20
Total nitrogen  — 
Total phosphorous  — 
Nonylphenol and Nonylphenol ethoxylates (NP/NPEs)  — 
Naphthalene  — 
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs)  — 
Fluorides (as total F)  — 
Octylphenols and Octylphenol ethoxylates  — 
Benzo(g,h,i)perylene  — 
* Scope includes only UPM sites' emissions above the threshold which is specified in the EU's 
E-PRTR
Emissions to water (total amount)
t 2025 2024
Biological oxygen demand (BOD7) 5,300 5,200
Chemical oxygen demand (COD) 57,600 56,600
Total organic carbon (TOC) (as COD/3) 19,200 18,900
Halogenated organic compounds (as AOX) 300 280
Emissions to soil
Refer to » E5-5 table By-products and waste for information about 
hazardous waste. No other pollutants to the soil are to be reported.
UPM Financial Report 2025 181
UPM Annual Report 2025180 181
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Microplastics
Active research and cooperation is done in the area covering both 
process raw materials and unintentional releases from plastic articles. 
From 2021 to 2023, UPM joined the “Circular economy of water in 
industrial processes” project. As a result, a laboratory measurement 
method for microplastics in forest industry waters was developed with 
universities at UPM's research center in Lappeenranta, Finland. However, 
this and other standardization and methodology developments are still 
insufficient. Testing, development, and validation work must continue to 
receive reliable and consistent results. UPM will continue research in this 
area by joining projects, through its own method development work, and 
in cooperation with external laboratories.
Changes over time
UPM has identified COD as the most relevant parameter for its 
wastewater quality and acidifying flue gases (NOX and SO2) as the most 
relevant parameter for air emissions. For both parameters, targets are set 
for 2030 from the 2008 or 2015 level respectively, and the performance is 
followed up at Group level. Refer to » E2-2 Actions for the follow-up on 
relevant parameters.
Reporting principles for metrics
Emissions to air
UPM reports the total amount of emissions to air of NOX, SO2, and 
particulates as its main performance indicators. These are calculated 
based on site-level data from sampling or continuous monitoring. These 
indicators include the emissions from UPM's own power plants and the 
respective share of jointly operated on-site power plants corresponding to 
UPM's energy supply. External power plants or boilers are considered for 
heat supply. In addition to energy-related air emissions, UPM reports 
production-related non-methane volatile organic compound (NMVOC) 
emissions from UPM Adhesive Materials, UPM Biofuels, and UPM 
Plywood, which are calculated using emission factor and/or mass 
balance methods.
As required by ESRS E2-4, UPM also reports on consolidated amounts 
which include only the emissions from sites for which the applicable 
threshold value as specified in Annex II of Regulation (EC) No 166/2006 
(E-PRTR) is exceeded. For non-EU sites, the same principle is applied but 
only for already measured emission parameters.
All UPM production sites enter their data into a common database 
where the data is checked and consolidated.
Emissions to water
UPM reports the total amounts of COD, BOD, and AOX from its pulp and 
paper mills as its main performance indicators. These are calculated 
based on mill-level data from sampling or continuous monitoring. If the 
wastewater is treated at municipal or external effluent treatment plants, 
the values included in the total sums are the loads before effluent 
treatment. These mills are excluded from the calculation of the average 
load per product unit. Conversions are made in the case of different 
measurement scopes: BOD7 and BOD5 (adjustment due to number of 
days, either 5 or 7), COD and TOC (TOC as COD/3 in accordance with 
ESRS E2-4).  
As required by ESRS E2-4, UPM also reports on consolidated amounts 
which include only the emissions from sites for which the applicable 
threshold value as specified in Annex II of Regulation (EC) No 166/2006 
(E-PRTR) is exceeded. For non-EU sites, the same principle is applied but 
only for already measured emission parameters.
All UPM production sites enter their data into a common database 
where the data is checked and consolidated.
In general, emissions are reported to the relevant local authorities in 
accordance with the site permits. For UPM's pulp and paper mills in 
Europe, China, and Uruguay, the relevant emissions are verified and 
reported in accordance with the EU's Eco-Management and Audit 
Scheme (EMAS) by EMAS-accredited auditors.
E2-5
Substances of concern and of very high 
concern
UPM does not produce any substances of concern, nor are UPM's main 
raw materials classified as such. In some cases, substances of concern  
can be found as components or more often as impurities in chemical 
additives used in production or in chemicals used for mill maintenance or 
as laboratory agents. When present in an additive used in production, 
substances of concern react chemically. This is because UPM products 
are typically solid articles such as paper or plywood. However, UPM's 
products may contain small amounts or impurities of substances of 
concern. Small amounts may also leave the sites as emissions to water or 
air. All products made in UPM pulp mills and in the European paper mills 
comply with the relevant EU Ecolabel criteria, e.g. for graphic paper 
including its strict requirements for  use of chemicals. Refer to » E2-1 
Policies for information about UPM's policies on the use of substances of 
concern.
In 2025, a review of the substances of concern was conducted. This 
review was based on the information and amounts of substances of 
concern in purchased production chemicals gathered in 2024, as well as 
the potential emissions to the environment, and potential carry-over to 
products. The review concluded that there are no material impacts or 
risks. Therefore, quantitative disclosure on substances of concern has 
been omitted.  
E2-6
Anticipated financial effects 
In 2025, no major incidents happened at UPM's operations and no major 
deposits were made. Thus, there were no operating and capital 
expenditures in conjunction with major incidents and deposits. 
UPM Financial Report 2025 182
Water and marine resources (ESRS E3)
Water plays a crucial role in UPM's operations, from sustainable forestry to logistics and production. 
It is also an important source of renewable energy.
Reduction in wastewater volumes
 achieved for a UPM average product
Average recirculation ratio of water 
used to freshwater withdrawn 
UPM's water-intensive 
operations are in areas 
with sufficient water 
availability-17% 20 x
Compared to 2008
(2030 target: -30%)
Approximate value in pulp and 
paper production
UPM Financial Report 2025 183
UPM Annual Report 2025182 183
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Policies
E3-1
The UPM Code of Conduct expresses the company's respect for people, 
the environment, and ethical business practices. It includes its 
commitment to minimizing negative environmental impacts. The Code is 
complemented by UPM's Sustainability Policy Statement, which 
addresses the issue in more detail. The UPM Supplier and Third-Party 
Code sets minimum requirements for the value chain. Refer to 
» G1-1 Policies for more information about these policy documents.
In addition, specific aspects are covered in the following policy 
documents and programs: 
• UPM Clean Run Standard, Refer to » E2-1 Policies
• UPM Sustainable Product Design concept
• UPM Sustainable Supply Chain Program 
UPM's Sustainability Policy Statement covers water management in a 
specific section. UPM's production sites aim to minimize water use and 
wastewater load. Basins where freshwater is scarce or projected to 
become scarce, or where the quality of the receiving water is considered 
to be poor, should be given particular attention. New water-intensive 
production sites shall not be located in areas with high water risk without 
appropriate measures to reduce related risks, taking future scenarios and 
the needs of society and nature into account. Furthermore, UPM's 
businesses are expected to design and optimize their processes for 
optimal resource efficiency, using best available techniques. Refer to         
» E2-1 Policies for more information about the prevention and abatement 
of water pollution 
UPM also manages the impact of its forestry on water resources. 
UPM's sustainable forest management practices aim to minimize 
negative impacts and support the role of forests in the hydrological cycle.
The Statement also takes UPM's approaches to sustainable product 
design, life cycle thinking, and life cycle assessment into account. This 
includes water-related issues. Refer to » E5-2 Sustainable Product Design 
concept for more information
As a signatory of the UN Global Compact's CEO Water Mandate, 
UPM follows recognized water stewardship principles. 
UPM's Sustainable Supply Chain Program promotes supply chain 
compliance and risk mitigation. Resource efficiency is considered as one 
material environmental issue. UPM sources numerous commodities that 
are material-, energy-, or water-intensive to produce. UPM's sourcing 
professionals must identify such environmental considerations in their 
sourcing categories and integrate them into their category strategies and 
supplier management activities. Refer to » G1-2 Sustainable Supply 
Chain Program for more information
UPM does not use marine resources. Connections with oceans or seas 
are related to the direct discharge of treated wastewater in the case of two 
UPM production sites located on the coast, the transportation of materials 
and products by sea, and indirectly through the discharge of treated 
wastewater originating in own operations into rivers and lakes ending up in 
the sea. UPM has assessed all these impacts but does not consider them 
to have a material negative impact or to pose a significant risk.
Actions
E3-2
Based on the identified material topics, UPM has set the following focus 
areas and Group-level targets in relation to water: 
• Water (with a target for the volume of wastewater)
• Responsible sourcing (with a target for spend covered by the UPM 
Supplier and Third-Party Code), Refer to » G1-2 Responsible sourcing
Action plans have been developed to achieve the Group-level targets, as 
well as other relevant areas for continuous improvement. The key actions, 
previous year’s key actions and planned key actions are presented below. 
UPM's Clean Run concept
Refer to » E2-2 Clean Run concept, for a description of UPM's means to 
improve environmental performance
Water management 
Key action
Pulp and paper production is UPM's most water-intensive activity. The 
water used in pulp and paper mills comes from rivers, lakes, or 
groundwater resources. It is used in the production processes as a dilution 
and transportation medium, and as cooling water for energy generation. 
Cooling water is not contaminated and can be discharged directly into 
the watercourse or used in production. The water used in production is 
recirculated internally, and only a small fraction eventually leaves the 
process as wastewater and needs to be replaced. All wastewater is treated 
in mechanical and biological effluent treatment plants before being 
released into watercourses. Refer to » E2-2 Reducing emissions to water 
for information about wastewater treatment
The Group-level water reduction target (with process wastewater 
volume as the chosen indicator) therefore focuses on UPM's pulp and 
paper mills. Each pulp and paper mill has a respective roadmap to 
achieve its water reduction target by 2030. In addition, UPM's other 
businesses are also reducing their water use through their own measures.
In 2025, the specific process wastewater volume per tonne of paper 
increased by 2% from the previous year and 6% compared to the target 
base year 2008. The specific value per tonne of pulp decreased by -3% 
from the previous year and by -37% compared to the target base year 
2008. Refer to » E3-3 Targets for the follow-up of the target at Group level.
UPM Financial Report 2025 184
Actions in 2025 
• UPM's pulp and paper mills continued their systematic water saving 
efforts. For example, UPM Tervasaari investments on the production 
are expected to decrease specific water consumption and wastewater 
volumes. At UPM Nordland paper mill, a multi-year project has begun 
to replace pumps with high sealing water consumption to pumps 
consuming less water. Many pumps applicable for this change have 
been identified, and the total water savings opportunity is expected to 
amount to 20 m3/h once the project is completed. 
• UPM's San Francisco nursery in Uruguay implemented improvements 
to its water recycling system in the hardening area. The improvements 
allow the collection and recovery of irrigation excess in this part of the 
nursery, aiming for a 100% water recovery rate in the whole nursery. 
• A potential for water recovery was identified during a trial carbon 
capture project at UPM Caledonian paper mill when condensing 
moisture out of hot gas; an idea which has been shared internally in the 
regular Clean Run and 2030 environmental targets sessions.
• UPM expanded its over 15-year collaboration with the Baltic Sea Action 
Group (BSAG) to include forestry water protection.
• UPM's stream water program, launched in 2016, was expanded to 
include UPM-owned land areas in the catchment area.
Planned actions
• UPM will continue to develop and implement measures to reach its 
2030 targets.
• Further actions to improve the water recycling system at UPM's San 
Francisco nursery in Uruguay will be implemented in 2026, also 
focusing on improving sludge treatment.
• In UPM Tervasaari, Finland, the startup of production investments 
resulting in lower specific wastewater volumes is scheduled for 2026.
Water risk assessments
Key action
UPM regularly updates its water risk assessments. The most recent 
update was carried out in 2025 using the WWF Risk Filter Suite 2.0. 
According to the assessment, none of UPM's main production sites are 
located in basins with a current high basin physical risk. Rather, they are 
located in basins with a very low to medium physical risk. 
The tool also provides scenarios for water risks related to climate 
change for 2030 and 2050. The scenarios show that, with one exception, 
UPM's main production sites are in areas with a low to medium future 
basin physical risk. The UPM Changshu paper mill near Shanghai in 
China is expected to face the highest increase in basin physical risk by 
2050. However, the mill has made significant improvements in water 
efficiency and treatment over the years. Measures have included water 
recycling and wastewater recovery. Also the local authorities control the 
river flow to minimize risks such as drought or flooding in the area. 
The tool also gives several single-indicator results for country or water 
basin  level, the highest ones of which UPM internally ground-proofs 
against actual conditions at the site. 
Actions in 2025
• An annual review of UPM's water risk assessment was carried out for its 
water-intensive production sites (i.e. pulp and paper mills as well as 
biorefineries) with the WWF Risk Filter. The results are summarized in 
this chapter. 
• A new internal ground-proofing, mitigation actions, and documenting 
process for WWF's tools highest physical water risk indicators per site 
was piloted.
Planned actions
• Sites that score very high on the water basin physical risk on even 
single quantitative or qualitative indicator level in the WWF Water Risk 
Filter assessment in 2025 will finalize their site-specific risk 
management analysis.  
• Utilization of the new WWF water risk tool version will be piloted in the 
sourcing processes.
• Continuation of participation in the Science Based Targets Network 
(SBTN) Corporate Engagement Program in 2026.
Resources 
In general, activities related to water management are included in UPM's 
overall operational expenditures, investment, and resource planning. 
Refer to » E2-2 Resources for more information on environmental costs 
and investments.
UPM Financial Report 2025 185
UPM Annual Report 2025184 185
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Targets
E3-3
Targets related to water 
To manage its sustainability activities, UPM has set several targets and 
key performance indicators for its sustainability focus areas covering 
production and supply chain. These targets support UPM's policy 
objective of minimizing water use on all UPM production sites (UPM 
Sustainability Policy Statement) and, for example, efficient water use of 
suppliers (UPM Supplier and Third-Party Code). UPM's sustainability 
targets are developed taking the views, wishes, and perspectives of 
external stakeholders from UPM's constant multi-stakeholder dialogue 
into account.
Sustainability focus area and key performance indicator Base year Base year value
2030 
target
Target follow-up
2025 (2024)
Water
Wastewater volume for an average UPM product * 2008 100% ** -30% -17% (-16%)
Responsible sourcing
UPM total spend covered by UPM Supplier and Third-Party Code 2015 79% >80% 
(continuous)
86% (91%)
* Relevant for pulp and paper production
** Calculation: minus 30% target for weighted average of reductions to be achieved for specific emissions of Pulp and Paper, with base year as 100%
UPM's sustainability targets for 2030 are followed up and reported at 
Group level at least annually. 
The target parameter chosen for water management is the 
wastewater volume of UPM's pulp and paper mills, which are UPM's 
water-intensive production sites. The target has been evaluated and set 
based on the historical development, known investment projects and 
technological developments, and potential local impacts. It aims to go 
beyond actual permit values set by the authorities and to consider the 
local circumstances. EU Ecolabel criteria and BAT reference values (best 
available techniques) were also taken into account when setting targets. 
The Group-level targets are allocated to business areas and sites.
Progress toward the Group-level 2030 target for 2030 for reducing 
wastewater volume has slowed since 2022, mainly due to changed 
operating conditions, particularly at paper mills.
 
Refer to » E3-2 Water management, Key action
Refer to » G1-2 Responsible sourcing for the sourcing-related target
UPM's main production sites are in areas with very low to medium 
water basin physical risk, and one of them, the UPM Changshu paper mill 
raises to high risk classification for the 2030 and 2050 scenario. Refer to   
» E3-2 Water risk assessments
UPM's Group-level targets cover all pulp and paper mills for 
wastewater volume and quality. 
UPM's targets do not cover the management of impacts, risks, and 
opportunities related to marine resources, as they are not material for 
UPM. Refer to » E3-1 Policies, last paragraph
The targets are voluntary and additional to legal requirements.
UPM Financial Report 2025 186
Metrics
E3-4
Water consumption
Water withdrawal, outflow, and consumption
m3 2025 2024
Water withdrawal
   Surface water 395,000,000  391,000,000 
   Ground water 10,000,000  12,000,000 
   Communal water 4,000,000  4,000,000 
Total water withdrawal 410,000,000  407,000,000 
Water discharge
   Process wastewater 195,000,000  198,000,000 
   Cooling water 186,000,000  184,000,000 
Total water discharge 381,000,000  382,000,000 
Water consumption
Total water consumption 29,000,000  25,000,000 
Total water consumption in areas at water risk 0 0
Water intensity
m3/€m 2025 2024
Total water consumption in own operations 
(m3) per net revenue (€m sales) 2,960  2,430 
Sales correspond to total sales as reported in the consolidated financial 
statements. Refer to accounting policies in the consolidated financial 
statements » Note 2.2. Sales.
Water recycled and reused
Considering UPM's operations, pulp and paper production is the most 
water intensive. There, only approximately 5% of the water used in 
production is taken from freshwater sources and internally recirculated 
multiple times. The corresponding average water reuse and recirculation 
ratio R(WRR) is 20 according to ISO 59020 Annex A. 20 times the total 
water withdrawal results in about 8 billion m3 of recycled and reused 
water in UPM's processes.  
Water storage 
Water storage is not material for UPM.
Water quality and quantity in the water basins
Water quality and quantity are taken into account by the authorities when 
setting the relevant permit limits. UPM follows up on water basin quality 
and quantity in accordance with national arrangements.
Reporting principles for metrics
Water consumption
All relevant production sites enter data on water withdrawal and water 
outflow into a common database where the data is checked and 
consolidated. If not measured, water withdrawal and cooling water 
volumes are reported based on estimates. Estimates are done based on 
pumps' operating times or production, for example. Wastewater volumes 
are always measured. Consumption is calculated as withdrawal minus 
outflow.
Water inflow and outflow are reported to the relevant local authorities 
in accordance with the site permits. For UPM's pulp and paper mills in 
Europe, China, and Uruguay, the data is verified and reported in 
accordance with the EU’s Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) 
by EMAS-accredited auditors.
Water recycled and reused
An actual measurement of all the water that is recirculated is not made. 
Internally recirculated water is an estimate, calculated by estimating how 
much water would be needed for each process stage at a pulp and paper 
mill, if use was completely linear. Water-use efficiency is tracked through 
specific wastewater volumes. 
UPM Financial Report 2025 187
UPM Annual Report 2025186 187
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Biodiversity and ecosystems (ESRS E4)
All activities that alter nature have an impact on the living conditions of local flora and fauna. UPM aims to 
mitigate negative impacts, and efforts to maintain or enhance biodiversity must be integrated into UPM's 
operations. 
Overall positive 
development of 
forest biodiversity 
measured in Finland,  
Uruguay, and in the USA
Percentage of certified fibre Obstacle-free streams achieved 
90% 323 
(2030 target: 100%) (2030 target: 500 km)
UPM Financial Report 2025 188
Transition plan
E4-1
Assessing resilience
Biodiversity refers to the diversity and variation of species and 
ecosystems. According to the UN, biodiversity is deteriorating worldwide 
despite ongoing efforts. Biodiversity loss is projected to worsen if no 
mitigation actions are taken.
Biodiversity is instrumental for the vitality of UPM's business. 
Enhancing biodiversity creates opportunities and reduces risks. UPM's 
operations are closely linked to biodiversity, and UPM's wood sourcing 
and land use activities may have significant negative impacts on 
biodiversity. Measures such as the use of certified wood are taken to avoid 
potential negative impacts.
UPM depends on wood as its main resource of production. 
Deteriorating biodiversity can have significant negative impacts on the 
availability and acceptability of wood as a raw material in the short, 
medium, and long term. Other relevant impacts on biodiversity may arise 
from UPM's hydropower plants and production sites. Local living 
conditions for flora and fauna at these sites are improved by reducing 
emissions to air and water, and in general, by removing obstacles in 
streams.
Relation to business model and strategy
Biodiversity is essential for maintaining healthy forest growth and 
ensuring the resilience of ecosystems and their ability to adapt to a 
changing climate. UPM systematically maintains and enhances 
biodiversity in its forests and unplanted and protected areas. Mitigating 
climate change is seen as one of the most important measures to 
safeguard biodiversity.
UPM's Global Forest Action Program combines measures on biodiversity, 
climate, water, soil, and social contribution to ensure a net positive impact on 
biodiversity in UPM's own forests and land areas. UPM's Sustainable Supply 
Chain Program supports the protection and enhancement of biodiversity in 
the supply chain. 
Biodiversity protection has been identified as one of the key issues in 
UPM's Sustainable Supply Chain Program. The issue is promoted in the 
sourcing categories where it has been identified as particularly relevant. 
These include commodities derived from the production of living natural 
resources, such as forestry or agriculture.
To steer its sustainability activities, UPM has set several sustainability 
focus areas, including forests, biodiversity, climate, water, and responsible 
sourcing, with targets and key performance indicators for 2030 or as 
continuous targets. They are reviewed every year based on a double 
materiality assessment.
UPM's actions minimize risks and negative impacts biodiversity loss 
may have on the availability and acceptability of wood raw material for 
UPM's products such as pulp, paper, timber, biofuels, and biochemicals.
Stakeholder engagement
UPM recognizes the importance of dialogue and open communication 
channels with internal and external stakeholders who are or may be affected 
by the company's actions. For example, this is done through forest 
management practices in accordance with FSC™ and PEFC certification 
requirements or through participation in relevant networks and 
organizations. For example, UPM has participated in the SBTN's 
development work since 2023 and joined the SBTN's pilot for land use 
methods in November 2025.
Impacts, risks and opportunities
SBM-3
Overview
Impacts, risks and 
opportunities Description
Positive impact: 
Ensuring and enhancing 
net-positive impact on 
biodiversity by UPM's 
forest management
UPM's Global Forest Action Program combines 
measures on biodiversity, climate, water, soil, and 
social contribution – with the aim of a net-positive 
impact on biodiversity in UPM's own forests and 
land areas, as well as the protection of biodiversity in 
the supply chain.
Potential negative impact: 
Biodiversity loss in UPM's 
multi-tier supply chain
UPM's operations are widely linked with biodiversity, 
and significant negative impacts may arise from 
UPM's wood sourcing and land use activities. 
Measures are taken to avoid potential negative 
impacts including potential deforestation, e.g. the 
use of certified wood.
Risk: 
Dependency on wood as 
main resource for 
production
Deteriorating biodiversity may cause significant 
adverse effects on the availability and acceptability 
of wood raw material needed to produce UPM's 
products such as pulp, paper, timber, and 
biochemicals
Opportunity: 
Biodiversity ensures 
healthy forest growth
Maintaining and enhancing biodiversity is essential 
for ensuring healthy forest growth, and that forests 
adapt to climate change.
Refer to » Report of the Board of Directors, section Risks, paragraph 
Biodiversity loss
Identified activities with potential negative 
impacts on biodiversity
In its assessment, UPM has identified the following activities and areas 
with potential material impacts on biodiversity:
• UPM's forest management in Finland and the USA and UPM’s land 
management in Uruguay
• UPM's hydropower plants and other obstacles such as dams in 
Finland’s stream waters
• Emissions to water and air from UPM's pulp and paper mills 
UPM Financial Report 2025 189
UPM Annual Report 2025188 189
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

• Certain sourcing categories have been identified as particularly relevant 
in relation to biodiversity. These are commodities derived from the 
production of living natural resources such as forestry or agriculture.
To date, UPM has not identified any material negative impacts related to 
land degradation, desertification, or soil sealing. UPM's measures ensure 
the conservation of the most sensitive environments, and that there is no 
degradation on a landscape scale.
UPM's forest management and land use may have an impact on 
endangered species. The potential negative impacts are minimized 
through several measures, projects, joint initiatives, and research in this 
area. Refer to » E4-3 Actions 
Policies
E4-2
The UPM Code of Conduct expresses the company's respect for people, 
the environment, and ethical business practices, including its 
commitment to biodiversity. The Code is complemented by UPM's 
Sustainability Policy Statement, which addresses biodiversity-related 
topics in more detail. The UPM Supplier and Third-Party Code sets out 
minimum requirements for the supply chain. Refer to » G1-1 Policies for 
more information about these policy documents.
In addition, specific issues of biodiversity are also addressed in the 
following policy documents and programs: 
• UPM's requirements for wood suppliers, Refer to » E5-1 Policies
• UPM's requirements for pulp suppliers, Refer to » E5-1 Policies
• UPM Sustainable Supply Chain Program, Refer to » G1-2 Responsible 
sourcing
• UPM Forest Action Program, Refer to » E4-3 Actions
The relevant impact drivers of biodiversity loss are covered in UPM's 
Sustainability Policy Statement through the company's commitment to 
climate change mitigation and adaptation, its commitment to 
sustainable forest management and zero deforestation, and measures 
such as the elimination of harmful invasive species at its sites and the 
reduction of emissions to air and water and avoidance of emissions to 
soil.
The Policy Statement also covers UPM's areas of impact on 
biodiversity: forest and land management, stream water dams, and 
production sites.
Dependencies between biodiversity and living conditions for flora and 
fauna are recognized. Biodiversity risks and opportunities are assessed 
and documented as part of UPM's risk management process, 
emphasizing that biodiversity is recognized as instrumental in 
maintaining healthy forest growth.
When sourcing wood and fibre, forest certification must be used to 
manage biodiversity impacts, and respective chain-of-custody 
certification must be used to ensure the traceability of the material.
All UPM-owned forests and plantations are 100% certified or will be 
certified if the site is new. UPM knows the origin of all wood and fibres used 
in UPM's products, as all UPM wood and fibre supplies are covered by 
third-party verified chain-of-custody certificates under the FSC™ (FSC 
N003385) and PEFC (PEFC/02-44-41).  
UPM recognizes the importance of responsible land tenure and 
respect for land rights. UPM has a zero-tolerance approach to land 
grabbing and maintains a respectful and mutually beneficial relationship 
with affected local communities.
UPM's forest units and wood sourcing units carry out biodiversity 
activities as part of UPM's global Forest Action Program. These cover 
owned, leased, and managed forests and land areas. Biodiversity-sensitive 
areas are identified, and efforts to maintain or enhance biodiversity must be 
integrated into UPM's operations where relevant, from daily practices to top 
management decisions. To develop and implement actions to maintain and 
enhance biodiversity, it is important to understand and measure activities' 
potential negative and positive impacts.
In addition, UPM's Sustainability Policy Statement addresses the 
importance of mitigating negative impacts on biodiversity for UPM's 
production sites.
Oceans and seas have not been identified as material for UPM's 
impact on biodiversity. However, actions are being taken to reduce the 
nutrient load on the Baltic Sea. UPM cooperates with the Baltic Sea 
Action Group.
UPM's Sustainability Policy Statement prohibits forest conversion to 
plantations or non-forest uses. In addition, all UPM suppliers are expected 
to map and understand the biodiversity impacts of their own operations 
and supply chains, and to engage in relevant biodiversity protection 
activities.
Actions
E4-3
Based on UPM's identified material topics, UPM has set the following 
focus areas related to biodiversity: 
• Forestry (with a target of 100% certified fibre)
• Biodiversity (with targets for a net-positive impact on forest biodiversity 
and obstacle-free streams) 
• Climate (with targets for Scope 1 and 2 CO2 emissions, acidifying flue 
gases), Refer to » E1-4 Targets and » E2-3 Targets
• Water (with a target for emissions to water), Refer to » E3-3 Targets
• Responsible sourcing (with targets for Scope 3 GHG emissions and for 
UPM's spend covered by the UPM Supplier and Third-Party Code), 
Refer to » G1-2 Responsible sourcing
For each of these focus areas, key actions are defined. The key actions, 
previous year’s key actions and planned key actions are presented below. 
UPM Forest Action Program
UPM's global Forest Action Program was launched in 2022. It outlines an 
ambitious agenda to maximize the positive impact of forestry operations 
by the end of 2030. The program takes a holistic global view of the impact 
of forestry, combining measures in five factors: climate; biodiversity; soil; 
water; and social contribution. It addresses the net-positive impact on 
UPM Financial Report 2025 190
biodiversity, the role of forests for the climate commitment of 1.5 °C, the 
protection of water systems, the importance of healthy soils, engagement 
with local communities, as well as safe working conditions.
Forests and biodiversity 
Key actions
UPM safeguards biodiversity in its own forests and land and continues to 
carry out biodiversity activities as part of the company's global Forest 
Action Program. 
Forest certification plays an important role in managing biodiversity, 
both in UPM's own forests and plantations and in external wood sources. 
This includes FSC™ and/or PEFC certification for UPM's own forests and 
plantations and chain-of-custody certification, controlled wood programs 
or other fibre sourcing standards for the supply chain.
UPM has set a target, with dedicated key performance indicators to 
measure progress towards a net-positive impact on biodiversity in UPM's 
forests. The set of indicators for Finland was launched in 2018, for 
Uruguay in 2022, and for the U.S. in 2025. Development work for 
measuring biodiversity is continuous. UPM has also set a target of 100% 
certified fibre by 2030.
In the USA, UPM is working to improve communication and 
cooperation with local indigenous communities to better integrate 
indigenous knowledge and interests into forest management strategies 
and biodiversity-related actions. UPM uses existing forest industry 
stakeholder groups and direct communication with representatives to 
exchange information. 
Actions in 2025
• UPM continued participating in the global project led by FSC™ to better 
understand the positive impact on biodiversity that forest certification 
has. In 2025, the second stage of the project was conducted, which 
included field work at selected UPM sites in Finland. 
• Implementation and follow-up of the new and revised biodiversity 
indicators for UPM's forests and plantations in Finland, the USA, and 
Uruguay. The first ever deadwood survey was conducted in UPM’s forest 
in Minnesota. This enables setting a baseline for future targets.
• The Science Based Target Network’s (SBTN) first pilot was finalized and 
the work with standards continued. SBTN launched a pilot for the version 
2 of Land Methods. UPM participates in the pilot with a view to setting 
potential targets for forest management in Finland.
• The work regarding the UPM Habitat Restoration Program started. The 
aim of the program is that by 2030 at least 3,000 hectares of peatland 
habitats will be restored, and management plans will be carried out on at 
least 100 other sites in UPM-owned forests in Finland. The other sites 
include habitats with a high potential to support or increase biodiversity, 
such as groves and esker slopes. 
• In Uruguay, the project to evaluate the usefulness of environmental DNA 
(eDNA) for estimating biodiversity through species detection using the 
DNA metabarcoding strategy was concluded in June. The study area 
covered approximately 500 hectares.
• More than 70 communities were positively impacted by the UPM 
Foundation projects in Uruguay. 
• UPM Uruguay received Ecosystem Service Certification (FSC®) for 
maintenance of a network of conservation areas.
Planned actions
• The global UPM Forest Action Program will continue with further targets 
and follow-up in all of UPM's  wood production regions in Finland, the 
USA, and Uruguay. 
• The implementation of the Smart Forestry™ method will continue in the 
USA with further measures and actions.
• Ongoing development work for measuring biodiversity with global FSC, 
and through direct collaboration with institutions.
• Participation in the SBTN Land Methods pilot in 2026.
• Active collaboration with the certification schemes to further develop 
the standards.
Stream waters and biodiversity 
Key actions
UPM's stream water program aims to remove obstacles to fish migration, 
restore fish stocks throughout Finland, and improve living conditions for 
all stream fauna. The target is to open 500 kilometers of obstacle-free 
streams in Finland by 2030. The target steers the activities and 
monitoring of their impact on biodiversity.
Actions in 2025
• Three obstacle removal projects with UPM's participation were initiated 
and carried out: Sysmä Virtaankoski (0.4 km), Kuusamo Kuusinkijoki 
(12.1 km) and Rautjärvi Kurunkoski (19.7 km)
• Four restoration projects with UPM's participation were initiated and 
carried out: Savonlinna Linnanvirta (0.25 km), Karkkila Rapuoja and 
Kaupinoja (2.0 km), Jämsä Arvajankoski (0.1 km) and Kitee Nivunki (1.4 
km)
• Studies related to eDNA continued in Finland and Uruguay. In Finland, 
three research projects with UPM's participation were initiated: The EU-
funded NorthDIVeRSITY led by the Natural Resource Institute Finland 
(LUKE), ARVOVESI3 Oulujoki water framework vision actions led by 
Kajaani University of Applied Sciences and Sateenvarjo IV Migrating 
fish development on built water courses led by the Natural Resource 
Institute Finland (LUKE).
• Participation in SBTN development. See above paragraph » E4-3 
Forests and biodiversity
Planned actions
• There are several dam removal projects at various stages in Finland. 
UPM aims to participate in at least one dam removal or restoration 
project every year as part of its Stream Water Program.
• Testing of eDNA will continue (see above)
UPM Financial Report 2025 191
UPM Annual Report 2025190 191
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Production sites and biodiversity
Key actions
UPM continuously monitors its emissions to air and water and its impact 
on water bodies. In addition, sites take measures to enhance local 
biodiversity.
Actions in 2025
• UPM continued to reduce emissions to air and water in accordance 
with its environmental targets for 2030, thus enhancing local living 
conditions for flora and fauna. Refer to » E2-2 Actions 
• Sites continued to manage invasive species in accordance with local 
plans.
• Participation in the SBTN development. Refer to » E4-3 Forests and 
biodiversity
Planned actions
• Further emissions reductions in line with UPM's environmental targets 
for 2030
• The research is continuing to establish a common practice for 
measuring the sites' impact on biodiversity in water courses.
Supply chain and biodiversity
Key actions
Biodiversity protection has been identified as one of the key issues in 
UPM's Sustainable Supply Chain Program. The issue is promoted in those 
sourcing categories where it has been identified as particularly relevant. 
These include commodities derived from the production of living natural 
resources, such as natural and plantation forestry or agriculture.
Actions in 2025
• Further advances were made in the supply chain collaboration 
program between UPM and its direct starch suppliers, which focuses 
on improving the working conditions of the farm workers in Thailand 
(UPM's tier 2-3 suppliers).  Building on the previous program stages of 
farm auditing, identification of improvement areas, target setting, and 
action planning, the program introduced Sustainable Agriculture 
Initiative's (SAI) Farm Sustainability Assessment (FSA), that addresses 
also biodiversity aspects.
Planned actions
• UPM continues its efforts to increase the share of certified fibre in its 
wood sourcing.
Resources
In general, forest-related actions are included in UPM's overall investment 
and resource planning. In addition, four green bonds issued since 2020, 
the latest one in 2024, have a strong focus on climate, as well as forest-
related activities. The green bond portfolio of €2,350 million uses eligible 
assets and projects from the following categories of UPM's Green Finance 
Framework: 
• Sustainable forestry and plantation management
• Climate-positive and circular bioeconomy-adapted products and 
solutions
• Renewable or CO2-free energy
Actions for biodiversity enhancement have been integrated into 
categories. Refer to » E1-3 Resources for details of UPM'’s Green Finance 
Framework.
In addition, UPM has credit facilities which are linked to biodiversity 
and climate targets.
Refer to » E1-1 Investment and funding, Climate-positive forestry, for key 
performance indicators for both operational and capital expenditures of 
the EU Taxonomy and notes to the financial statements.
During 2025, no significant capital expenditures for forest-related new 
projects were announced.
Biodiversity offsets
UPM does not use biodiversity offsets.
UPM Financial Report 2025 192
Targets
E4-4
Targets related to biodiversity
To steer its sustainability activities, UPM has set several targets and key 
performance indicators covering the areas of biodiversity impacts 
relevant to UPM: forestry; stream waters; emissions from production sites; 
and the supply chain. These targets support UPM's policy objective of 
mitigating the impact of UPM's operations on biodiversity (UPM Code of 
Conduct) and even enhancing biodiversity (UPM Sustainability Policy 
Statement). Sustainability targets are developed by UPM by taking the 
views, wishes, and perspectives of external stakeholders from UPM's 
constant multi-stakeholder dialogue into account.
Sustainability focus area and key performance indicators Base year
Base year 
value 2030 target
Target follow-up 2025 
(2024)
Biodiversity
Net-positive impact on forest biodiversity and developing a monitoring system * Since 2018 
(Finland)/ 2022 
(Uruguay) 
Usually the 
previous year
Continuous 
improvement
Overall positive 
development measured 
Obstacle-free streams ** 2015 0 km 500 km 323 km (287 km) 
Forestry
Share of certified fibre *** 2015  8 4  %  1 0 0  % 90% (88.5%)
Climate 
Fossil CO2 emissions from UPM's own combustion and purchased electricity (Scope 1 and 2) 2015 6.80 mt  - 6 5  % -58% (-50%)
Acidifying flue gases (NOX/SO2) for a UPM average product 2008  1 0 0  %  -20 % -20% (-19%)
Water
Chemical oxygen demand (COD) for a UPM average product **** 2008  1 0 0  %  -40 % -43% (-44%)
Responsible sourcing
UPM total spend covered by UPM Supplier and Third-Party Code 2015  7 9  % >80% 
(continuous)
86% (91%)
CO2 emissions from materials and logistics (Scope 3) 2018 6.08 mt  -35 % -22% (-22%)
* Covers UPM's own forests in Finland since 2018 and UPM's land in Uruguay since 2022
** Relevant for Finland
*** Forest management certification
**** Relevant for pulp and paper mills
The targets are followed up and reported at least annually, both at the 
relevant unit and Group level. 
UPM has had a net-positive impact on biodiversity target for its own 
forests in Finland since 2018 and for its land in Uruguay since 2022, with 
specific key performance indicators to measure progress. 
In Uruguay, most plantations grow on grasslands formerly used for 
cattle grazing. The area's biodiversity values are assessed before the 
plantations are established, and valuable biodiversity hotspots and native 
forests are protected. UPM's work focuses on the active management of 
protected habitats and the control of invasive species. 
In Finland, UPM's hydropower plants and other obstacles such as 
dams impact the environment by altering river and stream flows and their 
ecosystems. UPM's stream water program aims to remove obstacles to 
fish migration, restore fish stocks throughout Finland, and improve the 
living conditions of all stream fauna. 
UPM did not apply ecological thresholds and allocation of impacts 
when setting its targets. 
UPM targets are informed by local circumstances and legislation and 
evolve to respect international frameworks such as forest certification 
standards. 
UPM's biodiversity-related targets and their possible sub-indicators in 
the case of "net-positive impact on forest biodiversity" cover avoidance, 
minimization, restoration, and rehabilitation.
Refer to » E1-4 Targets for climate target 
Refer to » E2-3 Targets for air emissions and water targets 
Refer to » G1-2 Responsible sourcing for sourcing targets
UPM Financial Report 2025 193
UPM Annual Report 2025192 193
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Reporting principles for targets
Net-positive impact on forest biodiversity
UPM's approach comprises a set of biodiversity indicators contributing to 
the positive development of living conditions for flora and fauna on a 
specified land area. Indicators have been and new indicators are developed 
in co-operation with research institutes and other stakeholders. 
There is currently no scientific way to evaluate whether the total 
impact on biodiversity is positive or negative. Thus, UPM proceeds 
towards "net-positivity" having more indicators with positive than negative 
development, with the single indicators compared to the previous year. 
The annual positive development target is achieved when the majority of 
the biodiversity indicators shows a positive development compared to the 
previous year. 
The target is followed-up separately for UPM's forest in Finland and 
the USA, and UPM's land areas in Uruguay.
Refer to » E4-5, Metrics, Biodiversity indicators for information and 
follow-up on the specific indicators.
Obstacle-free streams
UPM aims to release or restore 500 km of stream waters and waterway 
routes by 2030. The verification and monitoring of released and restored 
stream waters is based on the Finnish Environment Institute's geospatial 
data, i.e. river network data ("uomaverkosto" in Finnish). 
Metrics
E4-5
UPM's impact metrics focus on biodiversity; the company’s forest 
operations are not related to land-use change.
Forest and land areas 
Forest and land areas owned and leased by UPM
Hectares 2025 2024
Finland 522,000 522,000
Uruguay 319,000 318,000
U.S. 76,000 76,000
Total owned 917,000 916,000
Uruguay, leased 177,000 174,000
Total owned and leased 1,094,000 1,090,000
This includes forest land for Finland and the U.S., and eucalyptus 
plantations, grasslands, and conservation areas for Uruguay. 
In addition, UPM manages about 1,660,000 hectares of privately 
owned forests in Finland.
Refer to » Note 4.2 Forest assets in the consolidated financial 
statements for information about hectares of productive forest land and 
forested land.
Forest certification
Certification of forest land owned by UPM
% 2025 2024
FSC™ and PEFC double certified  91.0%  90.2% 
PEFC certified  8.0%  8.3% 
In the process of being certified  1.0%  1.5% 
Total  100.0%  100.0% 
All UPM-owned forests are certified or in the process of being certified if 
the site is new.
The forest area covered by UPM's FSC™ Group certification is  
582,000 hectares in Finland and  9,000 hectares in Uruguay. UPM applies 
the same strict sustainability standards wherever it operates. UPM also 
promotes forest certification to private forest owners and other 
customers. UPM has established FSC™ Group certification schemes in 
Finland and in Uruguay, which support small forest owners' access to 
certification. 
UPM Financial Report 2025 194
UPM's own protected land areas
Globally, about 141,000 hectares (15%) of UPM's own land is protected or 
in restricted use. Protected areas include valuable habitats, natural 
forests, and other important areas such as wetlands or culturally 
important sites.
UPM's approach is to identify and protect valuable habitats within its 
forest and plantation areas. Protected habitats are not managed 
commercially. This means that 100% of the forest operations are nearby 
protected or other biodiversity-sensitive areas. UPM does not operate in 
global biodiversity hotspots.
Wood deliveries
Wood deliveries to UPM mills
mio m3 2025 2024
Finland 15.8 16.4
Uruguay 10.7 10.4
Germany 0.5 0.5
USA 0.3 0.3
Estonia 0.2 0.2
UK 0.2 0.2
Total 27.7 28.0
Biodiversity indicators – Finland
In Finland, the target of a net-positive biodiversity impact is measured for 
UPM's own forest land using nine indicators for three categories: forest 
management, conservation, and projects and collaboration. Indicators 
are developed in cooperation with research institutes and other 
stakeholders. The baseline is set as 2019, and the assessment for most of 
the indicators is done by comparing the current status with the previous 
years’ figures. In 2025, an overall positive development was measured for 
each indicator.
Biodiversity indicators – Finland
Indicator Target Metric 2025 2024
Tree species Increase broadleaved tree species volumes Share of broadleaved trees (%)  12.3%  11.8% 
Deadwood volumes * Increase deadwood volumes in 
commercial forests Volume of deadwood per hectare (m3/ha) 7.4 7.4
Retained aspen trees * Increase the volumes in commercial 
forests
Volume of large aspen (DBH>30 cm) per 
hectare (m3/ha) 0.74 0.74
Continuous-cover forestry Increase the share of forests managed with 
continuous-cover
Share of continuous-cover forests from 
total commercial forest area (%)  1.8%  1.4% 
Protected areas ** Improved nature conservation network Share of protected areas from total land 
area (%)  17.4%  17.2% 
Valuable natural habitats Diverse protected valuable habitat network Number of valuable habitats (#) 62,069 55,327
Habitat restoration Improved biodiversity in restored 
environments
Restored peatland areas (ha) 228 10
Amount of other restored sites (#) 11 6
Indicator development Complement the set of indicators and 
develop monitoring 
Biodiversity index and indicator 
development + +
Research and collaboration Active projects with stakeholders to further 
develop UPM's biodiversity program  Ongoing projects + +
* Data is based on National Forest Inventory data collected from sample plots located in UPM owned land and calculated by Natural Resources Institute Finland (Luke). Updated data 
availability depends on the NFI rotation (~5 years). 
** The protection percentage includes strictly protected forestry land and protected areas, which can be managed and used in accordance with the instructions of the authorities.
UPM Financial Report 2025 195
UPM Annual Report 2025194 195
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Indicator development
Measuring and monitoring biodiversity requires the development of 
indicators. As part of the development work, UPM reviewed and updated 
the indicator set with improved and concrete targets in 2024. The updates 
also ensure better alignment with other indicators and targets set by UPM 
Forest, such as the Habitat Restoration Program.
For the indicators relating to the structural characteristics of forests,  
two changes have been implemented from 2025 onwards:
• The former “Forest age” indicator was replaced by “Retained aspen 
trees”, which measures the volume of aspen with a diameter of 30+ cm 
per hectare (m3/ha). 
• The “Forest structure” indicator was renamed to “Continuous-cover 
forestry” and the scope changed to follow-up the share of continuous-
cover forestry on UPM lands. 
For indicators relating to habitats outside commercial use,  two new 
metrics for “Habitat restoration” were introduced:
• Restored peatland: with a target of 3,000 ha by 2030. 
• Number of sites restored or managed to promote biodiversity: with a 
target of at least 100 sites by 2030. 
An indicator “Research and collaboration” was added for projects and 
cooperation with research partners and other NGOs to develop 
sustainable forest management practices that promote biodiversity.
Biodiversity indicators – Uruguay
In Uruguay, the impact on biodiversity conservation actions is measured 
using five indicators as set out in the table below. Targets and metrics are 
defined for each indicator. 
The total area where UPM carries out some form of conservation 
measure is 66,000 hectares. This includes a network of 34 biodiversity 
reserves, covering more than 13,400 hectares. Each biodiversity reserve 
has specific management and monitoring plans.
Biodiversity indicators – Uruguay
Indicator Target Metric 2025 2024
Biodiversity conservation areas in 
UPM's own land
Ensure that the areas with conservation 
purposes represent at least 20% of the land 
owned by UPM 
Share of conservation area of total own UPM 
land (%)
 20.7 %  19.6 %
Coverage of UPM's network of 
biodiversity reserves
Cover at least 85% of the landscape units in 
which UPM owns land
Share of the landscape units present in land 
owned by UPM, which are included in the 
Network of Biodiversity Reserves (%)
 75 %  75 %
Conservation status index of UPM's 
biodiversity reserves *
Quality index needs to be at least 0.75 in High 
Conservation Value Areas
Average quality index in High Conservation 
Value Areas 
0.76 0.77
Control of invasive exotic woody 
species **
Reduce by 8% per year the active area of invasive 
exotic woody species 
Change in the active area of invasive exotic 
woody species between year end and start (%)
 23.7 % *
Endemic and threatened species Maintain or enhance endemic and threatened 
species populations
No. of endemic and threatened species recorded 
during the past 5 years/No. of endemic and 
threatened species recorded during the 
cumulative baseline period (%)
 -5.5 %  2.8 %
* Correction of indicator value (0.82) for 2024
** Reporting of this indicator started in 2025. The total area of active invasions of exotic woody species at the end of 2024 was 9,400 ha. This value is the starting point for reporting the area 
reduction to be achieved in 2025.
UPM Financial Report 2025 196
Biodiversity indicators – the U.S.
In the U.S., the target of a net-positive biodiversity impacts is measured 
for UPM's own forest land using six indicators divided into three 
categories: forest management, conservation, and projects and 
collaboration.  
Biodiversity indicators – the U.S.
Indicator Target Metric 2025 2024
Mixedwood silviculture Increase the area that is managed with 
mixedwood silviculture
Area of mixedwood silviculture (ha) 13,260 13,006
Multi-aged silviculture Increase the share of the area that is 
managed multi-aged 
Share of the area of total UPM land (%)  11 %  1 0  %
Deadwood volumes Maintain or increase sufficient deadwood 
volumes in commercial forests
Deadwood volumes per hectare (m3/ha) 22.9 *
Wetland and riparian habitat Confirm the locations and area of  wetland 
and riparian habitat
Locations mapped and area confirmed 
(ha)
24,504 *
Old-growth forests Confirm the locations and area of old-
growth forests
Locations mapped and area confirmed 
(ha)
** *
Mixedwood research collaboration Develop silvicultural practices through 
collaboration with research organizations
Ongoing activities + +
* Reporting of this indicator started in 2025.    ** Mapping in progress
Reporting principles for metrics
Areas (total, certified, protected) and wood deliveries
Due to its relevance for biodiversity and ecosystems, UPM reports on its 
forest and land areas, their coverage by forest certification, and the 
protected land areas. In addition, UPM reports the volume of wood 
deliveries to UPM sites by country of origin. 
The data is based on invoices or weighing systems for wood deliveries 
and third-party audits for forest certification. Areas are documented in 
forest databases.
All UPM forest and wood sourcing units enter their data into a 
common database where the data is checked and consolidated.
Biodiversity indicators – Finland
In Finland, the commercial forests owned by UPM can be classified as 
semi-natural forests that retain many of the features of natural forests 
throughout the regeneration cycle. The biodiversity indicators reflect how 
UPM retains the features that promote biodiversity, protects valuable 
habitats, and pursues to improve its practices.
Indicators Tree species, Deadwood volumes, Retained aspen trees, 
and Continuous-cover forestry reflect how UPM retains during its forestry 
operations the forest features that are essential for many forest-dwelling 
species. Deadwood and retained aspen tree volumes are inventoried by 
Natural Resources Institute Finland. This inventory is a subset of the 
broader National Forest Inventory which is based on sampling, and is 
conducted approximately every five years. The development in other 
indicators is based on UPM's own forest asset data system that, in case 
of these indicators, runs partly on estimates.
Indicators Protected areas and Valuable habitats reflect what was set 
aside from UPM's forestry operations. Protected areas are areas where 
UPM does not operate at all or operate only according to instructions 
given by governmental authorities. Valuable habitats are distinctive sites 
in a landscape that are preserved during UPM's operations, such as small 
forest streams or nesting places. The development in these indicators is 
based on UPM's own forest asset data system.
 Indicators Habitat restoration, Research and collaboration, and 
Indicator development collectively reflect UPM's pursuit to promote forest 
biodiversity in ways that are not yet part of its regular forest management 
practices. In these projects, UPM develops novel practices to measure, 
manage, and restore biodiversity, often in collaboration with different 
stakeholders, such as conservation experts and scientists. A list of these 
projects is publicly available on » upm.com.
Biodiversity indicators – Uruguay
In Uruguay, most plantations are established on modified natural 
grasslands formerly used for cattle grazing. The area's biodiversity values 
are assessed before the plantations are established, and valuable 
biodiversity hotspots and native forests are protected. UPM's work 
focuses on the active management of protected habitats and the control 
of invasive species. 
Areas with conservation purposes have been identified based on 
outstanding biodiversity attributes and classified in the following 
categories: biodiversity reserves which are High Conservation Value Area 
(HCVA) and Conservation Area (CA), and other areas with conservation 
UPM Financial Report 2025 197
UPM Annual Report 2025196 197
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

purposes which are representative sample areas and biological corridors 
or connectivity areas. Indicators for conservation area hectares and 
coverage are calculated based on Forest Oriental's (FO) forest database 
(Forest Oriental is the name of UPM's company dedicated to plantation 
management and pulpwood sourcing in Uruguay based on forest 
plantations), Geographic Information System (GIS), and public 
cartography of Uruguay's landscape units.
The quality of HCVA is assessed by the conservation status index 
which is based on annual monitoring of several indicators covering the 
status of natural grasslands, native forest, flora, and fauna.
The invasion of exotic species is an important cause of biodiversity 
loss and thus important to control. All areas with exotic woody species are 
identified and mapped. Active areas are those in which exotic species are 
present but have not yet been treated. After removal of exotic species, 
areas are inspected after three years to ensure that actions have been 
successful. 
Maintaining or enhancing the number of endemic and threatened 
species found in FO's biodiversity reserves demonstrates that the 
conservation efforts done by FO are mitigating the potential loss of 
sensitive species in the areas in which the company operates. Endemic 
and threatened species are defined by the Uruguayan Ministry of 
Environment, and the list is updated periodically. The number of such 
species in UPM's biodiversity reserves is followed up via a biodiversity 
monitoring program, and since 1992 the results have been maintained in 
FO's biodiversity database. Variation in this indicator is expected for 
example, when new biodiversity reserves are added to the baseline.
Biodiversity indicators – the U.S.
In Minnesota, the forest land owned by UPM covers 76,000 hectares. 
Forest can be considered mainly as semi-natural mixed forest, with 
species like aspen, pine, spruce, and fir. Most of the area is commercially 
used, but still with many characteristics of natural forest. By establishing 
the six biodiversity indicators UPM aims to further enhance these 
characteristics.
With mixedwood and multi-aged silviculture, the aim is to increase the 
number of different tree species and to create forests with enhanced 
stratification. Both of these characteristics help to develop the forest to 
resemble to those that were originally found in the area.
UPM is conserving the most valuable areas in its ownership. With 
indicators related to old-growth forests and wetland and riparian habitats, 
the locations and amount of these type ecosystems in UPM's land will be 
confirmed.
Deadwood is essential for many animals, whether they are insects, 
mammals, or birds. In the USA, UPM conducted the first ever deadwood 
survey with an external partner to have a baseline for the deadwood 
volumes, and to understand how the volumes are divided between 
different species, diameters, and a state of decay.
UPM collaborates with research organizations to further develop its 
practices. 
Anticipated financial effects
E4-6
For qualitative information about the financial impact of biodiversity-
related risks, Refer to the » Report of the Board of Directors, section 
“Biodiversity loss” in chapter “Risks”.
UPM Financial Report 2025 198
Resource use and circular economy 
(ESRS E5)
Resource efficiency and a circular bioeconomy respond to resource scarcity, contribute to climate change 
mitigation, and provide sustainable new solutions for customers and consumers.
Increase of process waste sent 
to landfills or for incineration
 without energy recovery 
Share of applicable products eligible 
for ecolabeling 
Nutrients used at own effluent 
treatment from recycled sources
4% 89% 41%
Compared to 2024
(2030 target: zero process waste to 
landfill or to incineration without energy 
recovery)
(2030 target: 100%) (2030 target: 100%)
UPM Financial Report 2025 199
UPM Annual Report 2025198 199
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Policies
E5-1
The UPM Code of Conduct expresses the company's respect for people, 
the environment, and ethical business practices, and includes its 
commitment to minimize negative environmental impacts. The Code is 
complemented by UPM's Sustainability Policy Statement, which 
addresses topics related to resource use and the circular economy in 
more detail. The UPM Supplier and Third-Party Code addresses 
minimum requirements for the value chain. Refer to » G1-1 Policies for 
more information about these policy documents.
In addition, specific aspects are covered in the following policy 
documents, programs, and requirements: 
• UPM Product Stewardship Standard
• UPM Clean Run Standard, Refer to » E2-1 Policies
• UPM's Sustainable Product Design concept, Refer to » E5-2 Actions
• UPM Sustainable Supply Chain Program, Refer to » G1-2 Responsible 
sourcing
• UPM Forest Action Program, Refer to » E4-3 Actions
• UPM's requirements for wood suppliers
• UPM Pulp supplier requirements
• UPM's requirements for chemical and pigment supplier
UPM Product Stewardship Standard
The UPM Product Stewardship Standard aims to ensure that all UPM 
products produced and placed on the market anywhere in the world are 
safe for their intended use, compliant, and sustainable throughout their 
life cycle. The standard establishes a framework for product 
management, emphasizing thorough risk assessment, adherence to 
good manufacturing practices, and compliance with legislation, including 
detailed documentation. 
UPM businesses and functions are responsible for implementing the 
necessary actions and processes to meet this standard. Various 
management systems, such as ISO 9001 for quality management and 
ISO 22000 for food safety management, can be utilized to integrate these 
practices into operations. 
This standard and its processes apply to all products within UPM. It 
focuses on product safety, compliance with relevant legislation, 
sustainable product design and product life cycle management, as well 
as clear and accurate compliance and sustainability claims. 
The standard was developed in 2024, and approved by the UPM 
Marketing, Sustainability and Communications function in December 
2024. Relevant persons working with product management, product 
development and technical customer service tasks have been trained in 
relevant UPM businesses in 2025. 
UPM's requirements for suppliers of wood, 
pulp, chemicals and pigments 
Specific requirements of UPM Sourcing for certain supplier groups are 
covered in additional documents, which are available on the UPM website. 
UPM's requirements for wood suppliers address legal compliance and 
detailed requirements related to the origin of wood. For example, the 
supplier must guarantee that all wood comes from acceptable sources, 
and that wood deliveries do not contain wood that is defined as 
unacceptable in the FSC™ Controlled Wood Requirements (FSC–
STD-40-005 V3-1) or that originate from illegal or controversial sources 
according to PEFC chain-of-custody requirements (PEFC ST 2002:2020). 
The pulp supplier requirements address environmental performance, 
forestry and wood sourcing, ecolabels, and reporting and audits. For 
example, UPM requires all pulp deliveries of the supplier to fulfil the latest 
valid FSC™ Controlled Wood and PEFC Due Diligence System 
requirements.
The requirements for chemicals and pigments address, for example, 
legal compliance, ecolabel requirements, as well as reporting of relevant 
information to UPM. For example, UPM requires full compliance with the 
requirements of the local chemicals regulation, such as the European 
Union REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of 
Chemicals) and CLP (Classification, Labeling and Packaging) 
regulations.
Use of renewable resources and responsible 
sourcing 
UPM offers bio-based alternatives to fossil-based materials. Refer to 
» ESRS 2 SBM-1, Strategy, business model and value chain. UPM's main 
raw materials are wood and wood-based materials. UPM's Sustainability 
Policy Statement, specific requirements for wood and pulp suppliers, and 
the UPM Forest Action Program cover forest management, wood and 
fibre sourcing, and their various impacts and risks in detail. 
The UPM Supplier and Third-Party Code defines the minimum level of 
performance that UPM requires of all its suppliers and third parties such 
as agents, advisers, joint venture partners, local partners, or distributors 
acting on behalf of UPM. UPM also requires all its suppliers to promote 
the same requirements in their own supply chains. Refer to » G1-1 Policies. 
The UPM Sustainable Supply Chain Program promotes compliance 
and risk mitigation in the supply chain and helps achieve UPM's 
environmental, social, and governance-related targets in the supply chain. 
Refer to » G1-2 Responsible sourcing
Circular economy
UPM's Sustainability Policy Statement states: "UPM is committed to a 
circular bioeconomy by using recovered materials from production 
processes and by developing recycling and utilization options for side 
streams and residues. UPM promotes recyclability throughout the value 
chain and the use of recycled materials in its products." 
UPM Financial Report 2025 200
Actions
E5-2
Based on the identified material topics, UPM has set the following focus 
areas and Group-level targets related to the circular economy and 
resource use: 
• Forest (with a target for the share of certified fibre)
• Waste (with a target for landfilled process waste)
• Water (with a target for the use of nutrients in UPM's own effluent 
treatment plants from recycled sources)
• Product stewardship (with a target on new products contributing to the 
SDGs and a target on eligible ecolabeled sales)
• Responsible sourcing (with a target for spend covered by the UPM 
Supplier and Third-Party Code); Refer to » G1-2 Responsible sourcing
Action plans have been developed to achieve the Group-level targets, as 
well as for other relevant areas for continuous improvement. The key 
actions, previous year's actions and planned actions are presented below. 
UPM Clean Run concept
Refer to » E2-2 Clean Run concept for a description of UPM's concept for 
improving environmental performance, including waste reduction and 
resource efficiency.
UPM Sustainable Product Design concept
UPM's Sustainable Product Design concept supports and steers product 
development projects, promotes a sustainable product life cycle 
approach, and ensures that each new product and service has a proven 
sustainability value proposition. The concept also supports UPM's aim to 
develop new products and services that contribute to the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs), as well as the development of a climate-
positive product portfolio. 
The approach is divided into six life cycle steps: design; materials; 
production; distribution; use; and circularity. Several tools help evaluate 
the sustainability factors of each life cycle step throughout the design 
process, such as Life Cycle Assessments (LCA), biodegradability and 
recyclability tests, or a screening tool for mapping environmental and 
social impacts and SDGs. Each step includes a variety of elements that 
guide the product development process. UPM's products have different 
applications, and customers are involved in different parts of the value 
chain. This means that the relevance of the different life cycle steps and 
their specific elements may vary from business to business.
Actions related to product stewardship
Key actions
For UPM, product stewardship comprises several areas, such as life cycle 
thinking, chemical management, product safety, product-related 
statements or compliance declarations, or the use of environmental labels 
such as the EU Ecolabel or forest certification labels such as FSC™ (FSC 
N003385) or PEFC (PEFC/02-44-41). UPM's Sustainable Product Design is 
the overarching concept in the development of products and services. 
LCAs are used to calculate potential environmental impacts of new 
raw materials or new products. They support decision-making in product 
development and provide evidence to support environmental claims for 
products entering or already available on the market. 
The ISO 9001 and ISO 22000 quality and food safety management 
systems provide a framework for continuous improvement of UPM's 
performance. All UPM's production sites are ISO 9001-certified. The relevant 
sites are ISO 22000-certified, which allows UPM to offer several products that 
are designed and produced to meet the requirements of food packaging.
UPM's Chemical Management Standard requires careful assessment 
of the hazard properties of chemicals. All chemicals selected for use must 
have the lowest possible negative impact on human health, the 
environment, and the safety of UPM's products. The list of restricted 
substances includes substances with selected hazard classifications. 
Product safety requirements are communicated to customers and 
suppliers of chemicals and raw materials. A harmonized questionnaire 
and a common tool (PP-VIS) enable UPM to ensure that sourced 
chemicals comply with laws and requirements such as the EU Ecolabel 
criteria. To support customer communications, UPM provides product 
safety profiles and statements of chemical substances that are not used 
in products.
Most of UPM's products are certified with widely recognized 
international and regional ecolabels such as the EU Ecolabel. UPM 
Biofuels has both ISCC EU and ISCC PLUS certification, and UPM 
Biochemicals and four UPM Adhesive Materials factories have ISCC 
PLUS certification. All UPM businesses which are using wood have FSC™ 
and/or PEFC chain-of-custody certification. This verifies the origin of 
wood and guarantees that all wood used in UPM's products is legally 
harvested from sustainably managed forests and does not originate from 
controversial sources.
Actions in 2025 
• The new UPM Product Stewardship Standard was implemented in all 
relevant business areas. Refer to » E5-1 Policies for information about 
the standard.
• In the last couple of years, UPM has improved and streamlined the 
management of chemical inventories and approval processes in UPM 
production units and implemented a supporting IT system. The system 
was extended to stepwise cover also Adhesive Materials factories.  
• UPM Specialty Papers has collaborated, e.g., with EvoPak to support 
Walkers Chocolates' transition from a plastic wrapper to recyclable 
paper-based packaging and with Royal Vaassen to support the 
development of several recyclable and food-safe barrier paper 
solutions for a variety of end-use applications replacing plastic and 
aluminum.
• UPM launched UPM Circular Renewable BlackTM , the first bio-based, 
NIR-detectable pigment, thus supporting plastic recycling processes.
• UPM’s new biorefinery in Leuna, Germany, achieved ISCC PLUS, PEFC, 
and FSC™ chain-of-custody certifications. 
Planned actions
• UPM is taking action to ensure that its products and packaging will 
comply with the requirements of the EU Packaging and Packaging 
UPM Financial Report 2025 201
UPM Annual Report 2025200 201
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Waste Regulation (PPWR), which will be implemented gradually 
starting in August 2026.
• Continued Sustainable Product Design concept implementation in 
various UPM businesses, including life cycle assessment work related 
to respective projects.
Making use of residues, side streams, and 
recovered materials
Key actions 
UPM's goal is to make efficient use of all material streams and to 
implement a circular bioeconomy: renew; reduce; reuse; recycle; and 
recover. UPM's target is to neither send process waste to landfill nor to 
incinerate it without recovering the energy by 2030. UPM's other circularity 
target is to use only nutrients from recycled sources in its own effluent 
treatment plants by 2030. Refer to » E5-3 Targets 
Best practices, research results, and ideas are shared throughout the 
company. Internal working groups focus on issues such as using side 
streams and recycling nutrients. Some of UPM's products are made of 
recovered materials, residues, or side streams, thus supporting circular 
economy.
Most of UPM's organic production residues such as bark, wood residues, 
and fibre-containing sludges from deinking and effluent treatment, are used 
to generate energy for mill sites. Some fibrous residues are used in brick 
manufacturing, as soil amendment materials, or as a raw material in board 
manufacturing. Ash from biomass-based energy generation represents a 
large share of waste and by-products. In 2025, 85% (83%) of the ash was 
used in various applications such as for soil stabilization,  fertilizer, in the 
cement industry, as a raw material for the production of paper fillers, or 
internally to replace caustic soda.
 Lime is a side stream from pulp production that is used as a liming 
agent in agriculture or for pH adjustment, for example. Green liquor dregs, 
another side stream from pulp production, are one of UPM's most 
challenging process wastes to utilize. UPM is working hard to find 
utilization options for green liquor dregs. 
UPM BioVerno renewable diesel and naphtha are produced from 
crude tall oil, a residue from chemical pulp production. For lignin, a side 
stream from pulp production, examples of existing solutions include 
WISA BioBond gluing technology, which uses lignin to replace part of the 
fossil-based phenol used in plywood production, and the UPM Solargo 
product family, which comprises lignin-based biostimulants that improve 
crop quality and soil performance. UPM has also developed a range of 
lignin-based renewable functional filler products that will be produced in 
UPM’s first-of-its-kind biorefinery in Leuna.
UPM is also actively improving the circularity of its product life cycle. 
UPM Adhesive Materials collects label waste from 350 partners worldwide 
and recycles it through its RafCycle® service. The service takes self-
adhesive label waste and gives it a new life as a resource for pulp, paper, 
and other fibre-based products or PET products. UPM also has a long 
history of using recovered paper to produce new graphic paper.
Actions in 2025
• UPM continued to follow-up the ISO and CEN standardization of 
circular economy.
• Further mills tested new sources of recycled nutrients and expanded or 
started the use of recycled nutrients. For example, the UPM Changshu 
paper mill in China started to use recycled phosphorus and recycled 
nitrogen was taken into use at UPM Nordland Papier in Germany. 
• Several mills implemented new sludge utilization concepts. Separate 
dewatering of biosludge and primary sludge was taken into use at UPM 
Nordland Papier, enabling the utilization of biosludge in biogas 
production and primary sludge in board manufacturing. A 
collaboration between UPM Kaukas and a partner was started to 
compost a part of the site's  effluent treatment sludges. The resulting 
material is utilized as soil improver in agriculture. Similarly, UPM 
Rauma started a collaboration with a partner that stabilizes a part of 
the site’s effluent treatment sludges with lime and uses it in agriculture
• In Uruguay, a dust-based liming agent "Microcal" was productized and 
the utilization in agriculture started. An environmental permit was 
granted for a pilot construction of a wood yard utilizing ash as 
construction material, and the construction project was started. A 
collaboration project studying the utilization possibilities of ash and 
green liquor dregs in cement production was started with a local 
university. 
• Also at UPM pulp mills in  Finland, further work was done to find 
utilization options for green liquor dregs.
Planned actions
• In 2026, UPM will continue its participation in the Finnish UUMA5 
program together with the Pohjolan Voima company to enhance the 
utilization of secondary raw materials in earth construction.
• The pulp mills in Uruguay will continue to research and test waste 
utilization possibilities which were identified in their 2030 Zero Solid 
Process Waste to Landfill roadmap.
• Development work will continue for the recycled nutrient target and 
zero solid process waste to landfill target at several sites.
Refer to » E3-2 Actions for water-related efficiency 
Refer to » G1-2 Responsible sourcing for UPM's Sustainable Supply Chain 
Program, which addresses resource use
Resources 
In general, activities related to product stewardship, circular economy, 
and waste management are included in UPM's overall operational 
expenditures, investment, and resource planning. Refer to » E1-1 
Investments and funding, Innovation products for significant actions and 
resources related to products. Refer to » E2-2 Resources for more 
information on environmental costs and investments.  
UPM Financial Report 2025 202
Targets
E5-3
To manage its sustainability activities, UPM has set several targets and 
key performance indicators for its sustainability focus areas covering its 
own operations (covered under Forest, Water, Waste, Product 
Stewardship) and the supply chain. These targets support UPM's policy 
objective for the responsible use of resources and the circular 
bioeconomy (UPM Sustainability Policy Statement). UPM's sustainability 
targets are developed by taking the views, wishes, and perspectives of 
external stakeholders from UPM's constant multi-stakeholder dialogue 
into account.
Targets related to circular economy and resource use
Sustainability focus area and key performance indicator Base year Base year value 2030 target Target follow-up 2025 (2024)
Forest
Share of certified fibre 2015  8 4  %  1 0 0  % 90% (88.5%)
Water
Nutrients used for effluent treatment from recycled sources * 2017  1 7  %  1 0 0  % 41% (33%)
Waste
Process waste sent to landfills or to incineration without energy 
recovery
2015 122,000 tonnes 0 tonnes 101,000 (97,000) tonnes; 
82% (83%) of UPM's process 
waste recovered or recycled
Product stewardship
Climate-positive product portfolio Since 2019 - Continuous 
improvement
Decarbonization solutions: 
7% (6%) of sales**
Development of new products and services with contribution to 
SDGs
Since 2019 - continuous Development of UPM Circular 
Renewable BlackTM and 
collaboration for paper-based 
product packaging solutions
Share of applicable products eligible for ecolabeling out of total 
UPM sales
2015  7 7  %  1 0 0  % 89% (89%)
Responsible sourcing
UPM total spend covered by UPM Supplier and Third-Party Code 2015  7 9  % >80%    
(continuous)
86% (91%)
* Relevant for pulp and paper production                                                                                                                   **  Correction of percentage value (8%) for 2024
UPM's sustainability targets for 2030 are followed up and reported at 
Group level at least annually. The target parameters chosen cover 
different aspects of resource use and circular economy (see the following 
paragraphs). The targets are evaluated and set based on their potential 
positive impact and the minimization of any negative impact.
Most of the targets related to resource use and the circular economy 
are on track. However, the total amount of process waste sent to landfills 
increased because, for example, some of the earlier recycling options 
were discontinued. Measures are taken to achieve UPM's zero process 
waste to landfill target. Refer to » E5-2 Actions, Making use of residues, 
side streams and recovered materials
Refer to » G1-2 Responsible sourcing for more information about the 
sourcing target.
UPM's targets related to resource inflows and outflows specifically 
address the following aspects. 
Reporting principles for targets
Share of applicable products eligible for ecolabeling out of 
total UPM sales
The share is calculated based on UPM's overall sales of paper, chemical 
pulp, plywood, label material, and timber products and the sales which 
has been eligible for ecolabeling in accordance with FSC, PEFC, EU 
Ecolabel, or national ecolabels such as the Blauer Engel in Germany. 
Products with multiple ecolabels are counted only once.
UPM Financial Report 2025 203
UPM Annual Report 2025202 203
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Circular product design
Product stewardship is one of UPM's sustainability focus areas. It includes 
three product-related targets that are linked to circularity and 
recyclability: 
• Circularity has the potential to support UPM’s target of achieving a 
climate-positive product portfolio, especially if the use of materials with 
a high carbon footprint is reduced; 
• Circularity is an aspect of UPM's Sustainable Product Design concept 
and contributes positively to SDG 12 "Responsible consumption and 
production"; 
• The EU Ecolabel for graphic paper includes criteria for recyclability. 
Use of renewable resources
Wood is a renewable resource and is UPM's main raw material. UPM's 
target of 100% certified fibre by 2030 underlines the importance of forest 
certification for wood-based resources, even though chain-of-custody 
certification for non-certified forest areas already ensures the origin of 
wood, legal harvesting, and sourcing of wood from non-controversial 
sources. Forest certification also plays a crucial role in maintaining and 
enhancing biodiversity. Refer to » E4-3 Actions, Forests and biodiversity
Circular material use and minimization of 
primary raw material
UPM is committed to continuous improvement of resource efficiency and 
to a circular bioeconomy approach. The company uses materials 
recovered from production processes and develops recycling and 
utilization options for side streams and residues from production 
processes, as stated in UPM's Sustainability Policy Statement. UPM has 
also dedicated targets for zero process waste to landfill and 100% use of 
nutrients from recycled sources in UPM's effluent treatment plants.
Responsible sourcing
Responsible sourcing is one of UPM's sustainability focus areas and 
includes targets and key performance indicators. Resources and 
circularity are also addressed as relevant environmental issues in UPM's 
Sustainable Supply Chain Program. Refer to » G1-2 Responsible sourcing
Waste management
By 2030, zero process waste will be sent to landfills or to incineration 
without energy recovery. This means all UPM's non-hazardous process 
waste must be recycled or recovered. Waste management supports 
achieving this target through proper sorting of waste and research into 
waste recycling options, for example.
UPM's targets can contribute to waste prevention, waste recycling, or 
energy recovery from waste.
The targets are voluntary and additional to legal requirements.
Metrics
Resource inflows
E5-4
Wood and fibre-based products are the basis of UPM's operations. 
Certified chain-of-custody systems and forest certification ensure that 
wood and other fibre-based materials are sourced from sustainably 
managed forests. UPM's main sourcing categories are fibres (wood and 
fibre-based materials), other raw materials (including pigments and 
chemicals), indirect materials, and services, logistics and energy. 
UPM’s external purchasing spend 2025
27%
30%
18%
14% 11%
Raw materials
Fibres
Logistics
Indirect material and services
Energy
Suppliers are an essential part of UPM's value chain. Materials and 
services are purchased from approximately 17,000 B2B suppliers globally. 
The sourcing network includes suppliers from startup companies to 
international corporations. In addition, wood is purchased from about  
13,000 private forest owners.
Refer to » E1 for energy and » E3 for water
UPM Financial Report 2025 204
Raw materials 
Tonnes (incl. moisture) 2025 2024
Wood 24,200,000 23,300,000
Market pulp 1,300,000 1,300,000
Recovered paper 470,000 700,000
Purchased paper for converting 350,000 310,000
Minerals 1,700,000 1,800,000
Chemicals 940,000 930,000
Plastics, adhesives, resins, films 170,000 160,000
Total 29,200,000 28,600,000
Percentage of biological material  
% 2025 2024
Wood share in total raw materials  8 3  %  8 1  %
UPM considers only wood a biological material. Its share of total raw 
materials is calculated based on data in the Raw materials table. Other 
wood-based raw materials such as pulp, paper, and recovered paper are 
considered a result of a technical production process. 
Both wood and wood-based side streams and residues are used where 
they create the most value.
Wood certification
% 2025 2024
FSC certified  16.4 %  18.3 %
PEFC certified  39.2 %  38.3 %
PEFC and FSC certified  34.2 %  32.0 %
Total certified wood  89.8 %  88.5 %
Wood complying with FSC Controlled 
Wood or PEFC Due Diligence 
requirements  10.2 %  11.5 %
Total biological material  100.0 %  100.0 %
All wood-based raw materials are either FSC™ (FSC N003385) and PEFC 
(PEFC/02-44-41) certified or minimum FSC Controlled Wood or PEFC 
Controlled Sources. The certification ensures that all UPM's wood, pulp, 
paper,  and recovered paper suppliers are continuously assessed for their 
environmental and social responsibility and their involvement with local 
communities. 
Secondary material
Recovered paper 2025 2024
Tonnes (incl. moisture) 470,000 700,000
% of total raw materials  2  %  2  %
Efficient paper recycling depends on local infrastructure for national 
collection and recovery systems. Recovered graphic paper is sourced 
from Europe, where the most significant suppliers are waste management 
companies, printing houses, and local authorities. Recovered paper is 
used as a raw material in UPM's graphic paper production and 
accounted for 12% (15%) of fibre materials used in UPM's paper 
production in 2025.
Reporting principles for metrics
Raw materials
Wood is usually measured in cubic meters. Refer to » E4-5 Wood 
deliveries. Conversion to tonnes is calculated using factors based on 
measurements and/or literature. The average moisture content of wood is 
estimated to be 50%. Market pulp and recovered paper are purchased as 
air dry tonnes with a dry solid content of approximately 90% and 94% 
respectively. The moisture content of other raw materials may vary, but 
the relevant delivery quantities are available in UPM's sourcing systems. 
UPM's Group-level reporting focuses on the company's use of fibre and 
other raw materials. Information about material use is aggregated data 
from UPM's sourcing units. 
Percentage of biological material
Only wood is considered biological material in the calculation. UPM 
considers other wood-based materials, such as pulp, to be the result of a 
technical production process. In accordance with ESRS E5-4, the 
denominator for the percentage indicator is the total weight of raw 
materials in their original state, i.e., including moisture. 
Secondary material
Recovered paper from external sources is included in the calculation of 
secondary material. Internal recovery is not included. In accordance with 
ESRS E5-4, the denominator for the percentage indicator is the total 
weight of raw materials in their original state, i.e., including moisture.
UPM Financial Report 2025 205
UPM Annual Report 2025204 205
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Resource outflows
E5-5
Products 
Unit 2025 2024
Paper t 4,300,000 4,600,000
Chemical pulp t 5,200,000 5,000,000
Converting materials t 500,000 460,000
Plywood and veneer m3 470,000 480,000
Sawn timber m3 1,100,000 1,200,000
Heat GWh 800 900
Electricity GWh 13,200 13,400
Designed according to circular principles
Some of UPM's products are made from side streams and residues or 
from materials recovered after product use, thus supporting a circular 
bioeconomy. 
For use of side streams and production residues, refer to » E5-2 
Making use of residues, side streams and recovered materials
For use of recovered paper in paper production, refer to » E5-4 
Secondary material
Durability 
The majority of UPM's products are business-to-business mass products 
such as pulp, paper, labels, timber, plywood, biofuels, and naphtha. For 
such products, durability is usually not the relevant requirement, but 
recyclability or biodegradability. However, durability is relevant in the case 
of plywood used for construction or in vehicles or timber when used for log 
houses or for building in general, for example. The lifespan of UPM 
plywood can be as long as 100 years. The durability and performance of 
timber and plywood in construction applications is proven by CE marking. 
Durability is also required of paper used for archiving or other long-term 
purposes or labels for specific end uses. 
Repairability
Repairability is not a relevant requirement for UPM's product range.
Recyclable content 
The majority of UPM's products are recyclable, depending on how they 
are further processed. 
Paper: UPM's paper grades that are mainly used for printing or 
packaging are fully recyclable if the further processing does not affect 
recyclability. Paper recycling systems are well established in most 
countries. Efficient paper recycling depends on the local infrastructure for 
national collection and recovery systems. PE laminated kraft liner is 
mainly used for packaging. It can be recycled when appropriate collection 
and sorting are organized.
Pulp: Pulp is 100% recyclable and biodegradable. However, pulp is at 
the beginning of the processing chain and can be processed into different 
paper grades (including hygiene papers) or other pulp-based products. A 
reasonable estimate of the recyclability of the final product is therefore 
impossible. Pulp bales are packed with steel wires and sometimes 
wrapped in pulp sheets, both of which are recyclable.
Converting materials: The label release liner, the thin layer of paper or 
plastic that protects the adhesive side of the label, is often discarded after 
use. This is why UPM Adhesive Materials has developed the RafCycle™ 
circular solution, a recycling service that enables customers to turn their 
label liner waste into new raw materials. The actual label used on products 
can theoretically also be recycled, but this depends on the packaging 
design. A reasonable estimate of the recyclability of the final product is 
therefore impossible. Usually,  label stock sheets and reels are placed on 
pallets and wrapped with monomaterial plastic film. Or, reels are packed 
with PE-laminated kraft liner. 
Plywood and veneer: Plywood is a 100% recyclable material when 
repurposed as raw material for secondary products or reused as such, e.g. 
in construction, after its initial use. Plywood can also be used as a fuel 
source in energy production after its first life cycle. 
Sawn timber: Sawn timber is 100% recyclable. However, it is at the 
beginning of the value chain and can be processed into multiple end-use 
products. Therefore, it is not possible to estimate the potential for reuse 
and recycling of end products. Typically, sawn timber is used as a fuel in 
energy production at the end of its life cycle, replacing fossil fuel sources.
For packaging of plywood, veneer and sawn timber, corrugated board, 
monomaterial plastic, and wood are used, and all of these materials are 
recyclable.
UPM Financial Report 2025 206
By-products and waste
Tonnes (dry weight), 
except hazardous waste By-products
Non-hazardous 
process waste
Other non-
hazardous waste Hazardous waste Total Total
2025 2025 2025 2025 2025 2024
Recycling 65,000 258,400 7,800 1,900 333,100 352,000
Composting 80 7,700 0 0 7,800 9,100
Energy recovery 5,700 209,100 1,200 500 216,400 235,000
Temporary storage 1,400 15,800 9,200 0 26,500 25,000
Landfilling 0 96,800 2,100 0 98,900 95,000
Incineration without energy recovery 0 4,600 0 2,700 7,400 5,800
Other disposal 0 0 0 1,900 1,900 400
Total 72,000 592,000 20,000 7,000 692,000 723,000
Total amount of non-recycled waste * 135,000 127,000
Percentage of non-recycled waste  1 9  %  1 8  %
* Includes waste sent to landfilling and incineration without energy recovery as well as waste and by-products sent to a temporary storage
Main waste and by-product streams
% 2025 2024
Fibrous residues  4 7  %  5 0  %
Ash  2 8  %  2 6  %
Green liquor dregs  8  %  8  %
Ash is the residue from UPM's own and co-owned energy generation 
processes. Fibrous residues are bark, other wood waste, or sludges from 
recovered paper processing and effluent treatment. Green liquor dregs 
are residues from chemical pulp production. Refer to » E5-2 Making use 
of residues, side streams, and recovered materials
In addition to waste and by-product streams, production residues are 
used internally as fuels: mainly black liquor from pulp production but also 
bark, other wood waste, or sludges from recovered paper processing and 
effluent treatment. This quantity is reported as fuel.
Reporting principles for metrics
Products
The quantities of paper, pulp, and converting materials include packaging 
and moisture. Plywood, veneer, and sawn timber are sold and reported in 
cubic meters, heat and electricity in GWh. Total paper and chemical pulp 
production and total electricity sales are reported including internal sales 
of paper, chemical pulp, and electricity.
Waste and by-products
UPM reports the sum of non-hazardous process waste and by-products 
divided into recycling, composting, energy recovery, landfilling, 
incineration without energy recovery, and temporary storage. The sum of 
hazardous waste is divided into recycling, energy recovery, incineration 
without energy recovery, and other disposal. The disposal method is 
determined by both direct information from the sites and by information 
provided by waste contractors.
Depending on local circumstances, a waste fraction, e.g. ash, can be a 
by-product or waste. UPM has decided not to exclude these by-products 
from its waste reporting but to report on both.
Waste and by-product data are reported in bone dry tonnes, except 
for hazardous waste. The data are based on weighing results or invoicing 
data. At the site level, data is collected continuously and reported to the 
authorities as required by law. Consolidation at Group level is done 
annually in UPM's common database.
Internal use of side streams and residues for energy generation is 
reported as fuels. Refer to » E1-5 Energy consumption and mix. 
Waste data is reported to the relevant local authorities in accordance 
with the site permits. For UPM's pulp and paper mills in Europe, China, 
and Uruguay, both waste and by-product data is verified and reported in 
accordance with the EU’s Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) 
by EMAS-accredited auditors.
UPM Financial Report 2025 207
UPM Annual Report 2025206 207
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Own workforce (ESRS S1)
UPM is committed to being a responsible and attractive employer, now and in the future. Promoting diversity and 
inclusion is a prerequisite for UPM's business success and a healthy working environment. UPM's safety work is 
based on long-term planning, effective communication, and leadership. 
Engagement score in the 
Employee Engagement Survey
Percentage of employees completed individual 
goal setting or annual discussion to enable 
continuous professional development
Total recordable injury 
frequency (TRIF) 
67 86% 5.0
8 points below the global 
average benchmark
for UPM's own workforce
UPM Financial Report 2025 208
Impacts, risks and opportunities
ESRS 2 SBM-3 
UPM is committed to being a responsible and attractive employer now 
and in the future. UPM wants to strengthen its employees’ sense of 
belonging and the feeling that they are doing meaningful work. This 
promotes productivity, engagement, and well-being.
UPM's values are the foundation of who we are. Building a culture of 
Aiming Higher is essential to UPM's success in today’s rapidly changing 
world. Cultural ambition includes being accountable, performance-driven, 
human centric, and eager to learn and grow. UPM's aim is to further 
increase employee motivation and make growth opportunities more 
visible and accessible.
In an increasingly complex business environment, enhancing 
employees' skills and well-being is important for both business success 
and sustained employability. UPM's long-term goal is to ensure high 
performance and continuous professional development.
Description of UPM's own workforce
UPM's own workforce consists of the following groups:
• Own employees: people directly employed by UPM
• Non-employees, further divided into two sub-groups
• Agency hires: persons employed by employment agencies or labor 
providers working at UPM's sites under the direct supervision of 
UPM. Agency employees are not directly employed by UPM.   
• Independent contractors: self-employed individuals who provide 
services or labor to UPM and are bound by a direct contractual 
arrangement other than a contract of employment. The number of 
such independent contractors is currently estimated to be so small 
that reporting on them is not material for UPM.  
All people in UPM's own workforce who could be materially affected by 
UPM are included in the scope of disclosure. None of the identified 
material risks and opportunities relate to a specific group within own 
workforce but concern all groups equally.
Overview of material impacts, risks and opportunities 
Material topics Impacts, risks and opportunities Description
Decent work and 
fair rewarding
Positive impact: Ensuring equal and 
adequate pay, training, and development
UPM ensures equal and adequate pay through its third-party verified annual review process and 
correction of identified gaps. UPM is continuously developing its employee experience and leadership 
culture, evaluating its recruitment, compensation policies, and career development opportunities.
Potential negative impact*: Job losses due 
to closing of operations or restructuring
Changes in the business environment and market demand may lead to restructuring measures to 
ensure UPM’s cost-competitiveness. Active measures are taken to mitigate the effects on employees, 
e.g. by promoting employment and retraining.
Risk: Lack of skilled workforce The success of UPM's businesses depends largely on the ability to build and maintain the necessary 
new capabilities required for future growth. 
Opportunity: Being the employer of choice UPM continuously develops its employee experience and leadership culture, evaluates its recruitment, 
compensation policies and career development opportunities, and takes measures to attract and 
retain diversely skilled personnel and individuals with rare and critical specialist knowledge for current 
and future growth areas.
Diversity and 
inclusion
Positive impact: Enhancing diversity and 
inclusion with a positive impact on the 
workforce
In addition to UPM's targets for female representation in management and equal pay, UPM’s 
commitment to inclusion and diversity is underlined by active training, dialogue, and cooperation. 
The latest example is UPM's global and employee-led BeU network.
Health and safety Positive impact: Increased focus on health 
and safety measures for people working at 
all UPM sites
UPM continuously improves health and safety practices across all business areas and sites for 
example by systematic risk assessments, audits, trainings, development projects and best practice 
sharing, and ensuring the progress by monitoring both leading and lagging KPIs as well as by 
employee surveys.
Negative impact*: Health and safety 
incidents, including serious accidents and 
fatalities for UPM workforce
Although several measures are taken to prevent injuries and accidents to employees and contractors 
on UPM's production sites, a risk remains. The importance of health and safety is also discussed and 
followed up with suppliers, but negative impacts can occur. These negative impacts are related to 
individual incidents.
Risk: Potential injury to UPM workforce Failure to maintain a high level of safety management could result in injury, illness or liability to UPM's 
employees, contractors, or third parties. These risks are managed through established management 
procedures, health and safety precautions, and loss prevention programs.
*UPM's identified material negative impacts are not seen as widespread or systemic but are related to potential individual incidents.
No risks of forced or compulsory labor or child labor has been identified 
for UPM's own operations.
As part of UPM's ongoing human rights due diligence, the company has 
identified groups who are at higher risk of experiencing potential adverse 
human rights impacts. Based on UPM's assessments and dialogue with 
various stakeholders, UPM has defined migrant workers, women, young 
workers, and temporary and contractor workers as groups with a higher risk 
of potential adverse human rights impacts across UPM's value chain.   
UPM Financial Report 2025 209
UPM Annual Report 2025208 209
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Policies
S1-1
UPM's decision-making, management and operations are guided by UPM's 
values and the UPM Code of Conduct. Compliance with the laws and 
responsible practices are the basis of all UPM's operations and create long-
term value for both UPM and its stakeholders. The UPM Code of Conduct 
underlines UPM's commitment to business integrity and responsible 
business operations and reflects the company's guiding principles.
UPM works to ensure that human rights are respected by all UPM 
employees throughout the operations and business relationships and 
expects its suppliers and business partners to do the same. UPM wants to 
ensure that all raw materials and services are purchased from responsible 
sources. Refer to » G1-1 Policies
UPM's Human Resources and Safety Rules 
UPM's human resources management is based on the company's values 
and is an important part of UPM's corporate social responsibility. The 
UPM HR (Human Resources) Rules complement the UPM Code of 
Conduct by defining in more detail the principles of working conditions, 
labor practices, and decent work as described by the International Labour 
Organization (ILO), what UPM is committed to, and what is expected of its 
employees. The UPM HR Rules are owned by UPM's Human Resources 
function and approved by the Group Executive Team. The UPM HR Rules 
apply to all UPM's employees and executives. The UPM HR Rules do not 
apply directly to suppliers and other third parties and their 
representatives, as they are bound by similar principles by the UPM 
Supplier and Third-Party Code.  
UPM complies with international, national, and local safety laws, 
regulations, and rules. UPM does this by implementing and complying 
with UPM's safety standards and local procedures. 
UPM promotes fair working conditions and respects the right of 
employees to form and join associations, bargain collectively, and 
assemble peacefully. UPM does not tolerate modern slavery, child labor, 
forced labor, or human trafficking in any form in its operations or in any 
part of its value chain.
UPM Safety Rules set and communicate clear safety expectations 
and targets at all levels of UPM's organizations.The UPM Safety Rules are 
owned by UPM's Human Resources function and approved by the Group 
Executive Team. UPM's occupational health and safety management 
systems ensure that the targets are met. This is reinforced by UPM's 
safety standards, in particular the safety standard on roles and 
responsibilities, which also defines the business line organization's 
responsibility for ensuring the safety standards are implemented. 
All UPM employees apply UPM's Safety Rules in a disciplined manner. 
In addition, UPM's business partners and their employees at UPM's sites 
are required to adopt safe working practices and comply with UPM's 
Safety Rules and standards. If a safety violation is detected, UPM 
intervenes and takes the necessary measures in a timely manner. UPM 
has an internal health and safety (H&S) audit program for each business 
area to monitor and check compliance with UPM's safety standards. This 
highlights good practices, as well as any shortcomings or actions needed 
to meet UPM's H&S expectations. 
The UPM Code of Conduct, UPM HR Rules, and UPM Safety Rules 
apply to all UPM's own workforce.
UPM and human rights 
Commitments
UPM is committed to respecting human rights in line with the United 
Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. UPM 
respects the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO 
Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and the 
OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. UPM also promotes the 
human-rights-related principles of the UN Global Compact.
The UPM Code of Conduct, the UPM Sustainability Policy Statement, 
and the UPM Supplier and Third-Party Code are aligned with these 
internationally recognized standards.
Compliance system
UPM's compliance system is the risk management system used to 
manage UPM's human rights and environmental risks. UPM's compliance 
system is embedded in its governance model and is designed to strengthen 
corporate performance and a culture of integrity at all levels.
Risk analysis
UPM regularly assesses human rights risks at business area, function, 
and corporate level. This includes identifying actual and potential risks 
and impacts, evaluating their severity and likelihood, and prioritizing the 
most significant issues for action. Refer to » G1-2 Responsible sourcing 
Business areas and functions are responsible for identifying risks 
within their own operations and activities. The prioritization and 
determination of the  materiality of the risks are assessed in connection 
with UPM’s corporate salient human rights assessment. The procedure is 
integrated into existing management systems to the extent possible and 
applied in investment processes. 
Training and engagement
UPM's Code of Conduct training is mandatory for all UPM employees, 
and participation is measured and reported annually. The training covers 
the protection of human rights and the environment, and the 
identification of human rights and environmental risks. In addition, there is 
a separate e-learning course on the requirements of the UPM Supplier 
and Third-Party Code for UPM's employees who deal with suppliers. The 
link between human rights violations and corruption is also covered in 
UPM's anti-corruption training, which is mandatory for all salaried 
employees.
UPM's Sourcing function organizes additional training for its 
employees on sustainability principles and supplier requirements.
Remediation
UPM monitors and works to remedy adverse impacts on human rights of 
which it is aware, and which its activities have caused or contributed to. In 
the event of a violation of a human rights or environmental obligation, 
UPM determines the necessary and appropriate remedy measures on a 
UPM Financial Report 2025 210
case-by-case basis, based on verified impacts. See » G1-1 Policies for 
more information about handling concerns.
Diversity and inclusion
All UPM employees are responsible for creating a diverse and inclusive 
working environment. It is important to employ people with different 
competences, backgrounds, and experience, as well as different genders, 
ages, and nationalities, to bring together different views and improve 
decision-making and business success. All UPM employees are expected 
to build and encourage a culture that allows for different views, and where 
everyone has the opportunity to contribute. UPM is committed to a 
European-wide diversity charter initiative to develop a diverse and 
inclusive workplace.
UPM promotes equal opportunities and does not tolerate direct or 
indirect discrimination against anyone based on gender, age, ethnicity, 
race, nationality, family ties, religion, sexual orientation, disability, political 
opinion, trade union affiliation, or any other similar aspect related to a 
person. 
There shall be no direct or indirect discrimination in relation to 
selection criteria in resourcing. In personnel planning and recruitment, the 
selection criteria will be based on a person’s skills and competences. 
Application and recruitment processes shall be open and transparent 
when applicable. The working environment and facilities shall be 
developed so that they do not prevent equality between employees. All 
employees shall have a chance to develop in their work. Employees are 
given equal career opportunities based on their qualifications and 
business needs. 
Sexual or other forms of harassment – whether verbal, physical, or 
visual -, harsh or inhuman treatment, is not tolerated. UPM does not 
engage in behavior that could be characterized as offensive, intimidating, 
threatening, malicious, or insulting.
The UPM Code of Conduct, UPM's values, and the UPM HR Rules 
address these topics.
Processes
Processes for workforce engagement
S1-2
Every year, UPM's Employee Engagement Survey (EES) is available for all 
employees across the company to evaluate various aspects of their 
working environment. It is an important way of measuring the company's 
success in developing as an employer and progress in achieving the 
social responsibility targets that are important to UPM, such as safety, 
diversity and inclusion, learning and growth, and leadership. The EES 
provides an opportunity to monitor long-term trends and progress on 
agreed development activities annually. This progress is followed up and 
evaluated to enable continuous development of the workplace at both 
organizational and team levels.
To complement the EES, a UPM Health and Well-being pulse survey 
has been conducted for the last four years. The pulse focuses on the main 
elements of the UPM's health and well-being approach.
UPM aims to empower and engage employees at all levels through 
responsible leadership, with different forums to facilitate continuous 
dialogue between employees and business management, for example.
UPM engages in both formal and informal consultations with trade 
unions and actively promotes employee participation and consultation in 
accordance with international and national rules and regulations. To 
promote employee participation, consultation and dialogue between UPM's 
business areas and country management, and employee representatives 
and employees at national level, UPM's countries have cooperative bodies 
that operate based on country-specific rules, regulations, and UPM's 
practices. In addition, to promote an open international dialogue between 
management and employee representatives, UPM has a cooperative body, 
the UPM European Forum, which focuses on issues related to changes in 
the company and the business environment in general. The Forum 
organizes regular meetings for employee representatives from business 
units operating in Europe. 
The Human Resources function and the Executive Vice President of 
Human Resources have operational responsibility for ensuring that 
employee engagement takes place.
The effectiveness of UPM's engagement with its own employees is 
assessed through the EES and individual target setting and follow-up 
discussions.
Processes for raising and handling 
concerns
S1-3
UPM has implemented processes for reporting, identifying, and 
investigating concerns and for handling incidents, including remediation 
and protection against retaliation. These processes cover all 
stakeholders, including UPM's own workforce. 
Refer to » G1-1  Reporting and identifying concerns, Investigating 
concerns and incident handling for detailed information.
UPM does not yet systematically gather feedback from employees on 
their level of trust in, or awareness of, the company’s grievance 
mechanisms. However, the perception of the management on these 
topics is gathered annually. UPM also regularly gathers feedback on the 
Code of Conduct training, and a dedicated Code of Conduct Helpline is in 
place to support employees and address questions related to the Code, 
including the use of our grievance channels. In addition, the annual 
Employee Engagement Survey includes questions related to company 
ethics, providing further insight into employees’ perceptions of the 
company's ethical culture.
UPM Financial Report 2025 211
UPM Annual Report 2025210 211
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Actions 
S1-4
UPM's identified material topics have been defined as a result of a double 
materiality assessment, considering impacts, risks and opportunities 
related to its own workforce. Based on these material topics, the following 
focus areas related to UPM's own workforce have been developed: 
• Responsible leadership
• Continuous learning and development
• Diversity and inclusion
• Fair rewarding 
• Safe and healthy working environment 
For each focus area, the key actions, previous year's key actions, and 
planned key actions are presented below. UPM monitors the effectiveness 
of its actions to manage material impacts by tracking and reporting on 
the progress of its sustainability targets for 2030. Refer to » S1-5 Targets 
related to UPM's workforce. 
Responsible leadership
Key actions
UPM continuously develops leadership capabilities and management 
teams, as well as the working environment. UPM provides leaders with 
tools for receiving feedback to develop their leadership and teams. They 
receive relevant and timely employee engagement data about their 
teams and organization.
UPM also provides a leadership development program portfolio that 
supports the three cornerstones of leadership at UPM: leading oneself; 
leading people; and leading business. 
Leadership development focus areas and solutions are continuously 
reviewed and renewed. UPM focuses on improving the performance and 
motivation of people through feedback, development planning, agile goal 
setting, and regular one-to-one discussions. 
Actions in 2025
• New programs on business acumen and impactful communication in 
UPM’s global leadership development portfolio 
• AI upskilling and "Let's talk AI" team discussions
• Implementation of a new 360 leadership assessment tool 
Planned actions
• Continuous renewal of the program portfolio to ensure relevant 
leadership capabilities for any business situation
• People manager development solutions to strengthen leadership which 
enables everyone to grow, perform, and achieve business results
• Encouraging experimentation to promote creativity, testing of ideas, 
and data-driven decisions
• AI upskilling continues
Learning and development
Key actions
UPM encourages its employees to pursue professional growth and 
supports them in learning and developing their skills further. Ensuring high 
performance for business success and continuous professional 
development of employees are UPM's long-term targets and an 
important focus area for its work in social responsibility.
UPM invests in the growth of its employees and expects individuals to 
be eager to learn and develop. All employees are encouraged to create an 
individual development plan and keep it up to date. UPM applies the 
70-20-10 learning and development framework: 70% of the learning takes 
place on the job; 20% comes from sharing with and learning from 
colleagues; and 10% comes from training. Expert communities play an 
important role in sharing and learning across the company. The learning 
impact is measured by evaluating the degree to which participants apply 
what they have learned during training when they are back on the job.
UPM continuously introduces new digital learning content and online 
programs to develop skills in commerce, sourcing, finance, compliance, 
safety, leadership, and design thinking, for example. New digital solutions 
to enhance operator experience were created and tested successfully on 
some production sites and promoted to others. In the longer run, 
shopfloor employees will be able to access relevant digital learning 
content in the flow of work more easily. 
UPM encourages and enables employees to contribute to projects 
such as gigs and expert communities. These are good ways to contribute, 
learn new skills and network. UPM has developed a project approach to 
support the project way of working and enable success in different 
development projects.
Actions in 2025
• Continued to promote digi-enabled operator experience 
• Created a development concept for shopfloor employees 
• Implemented microlearning creation tools  
• Implemented an AI-assisted corporate chatbot for finding information 
and learning from the company’s content  
• Created new digital learning program concepts on business acumen 
development available to all employees 
• Reviewed the current state and created a vision for the Learning end-
to-end process 
• Created an AI learning hub and started AI upskilling across the 
company 
Planned actions
• Make growth support visible through feedback, development planning, 
renewed shopfloor discussions, and promotion of job rotation
• Provide relevant digital learning for shopfloor employees and programs 
to build business acumen
• Use AI to improve onboarding, enable personal productivity, and 
enhance learning experiences
• Pilot AI-assisted tools and chatbots to create and deliver learning 
content efficiently
• Maintain and expand learning content in the AI learning hub
UPM Financial Report 2025 212
Diversity and inclusion
Key actions
Developing a diverse and inclusive workplace starts with three things: 
committing to diversity and inclusion; monitoring data and processes 
regularly; and developing leadership and working culture. UPM's approach 
to promoting diversity and inclusion is also enshrined in its Code of 
Conduct and other company policies, its social responsibility targets, 
inclusive leadership, and transparent recruitment.
UPM regularly reviews its diversity status and data. UPM's 
management teams conduct self-assessments that address diversity 
and inclusion. Managers and HR have dashboards with diversity data. 
Processes such as rewarding and recruitment are followed up regularly. 
UPM also regularly reports progress in several external indices. UPM's 
internal analysis confirm that men and women have equal opportunities 
for professional growth at UPM. UPM has set a target for female 
representation in professional and management roles.
Actions in 2025
• Diversity and inclusion discussions continued in businesses and 
functions 
• BeU Employee Resource Group for LGBTIQ+ remained active and 
contributed to the implementation of the BeU Safe Contacts concept
• Emerged gender pay gap closed 
Planned actions
• Continue benchmarking – learning from other companies that have 
successfully implemented LGBTIQ+ initiatives 
• Embed BeU Safe Contacts concept in UPM and have a network of safe 
contacts available for employees to discuss workplace inclusion and 
LGBTIQ+ related topics
• Continue implementing female leadership target setting-related action 
plans 
• Review of HR-related guidelines from D&I point of view
Fair rewarding
Key actions
In accordance with the UN's Sustainable Development Goals, UPM has 
set clear focus areas and targets for its work on social responsibility. UPM 
wants to ensure fair, equitable, and competitive rewarding for all UPM 
employees globally. UPM is committed to gender pay equity and to 
paying at least the living wage to all its employees. UPM's commitment to 
fair rewarding is stated in UPM's Code of Conduct and further specified in 
its policies and rules on rewarding. UPM's commitment to fair rewarding is 
included in its 2030 social responsibility targets, where UPM has two 
specific initiatives: first, ensuring all UPM employees’ pay meets at least 
the local living wage; second, ensuring gender pay equity for all 
employees. For both these initiatives, UPM is committed to conducting 
annual reviews and to close any identified gaps in pay.
UPM has been monitoring and paying a living wage to all UPM 
employees since 2019. UPM's commitment to pay the living wage covers 
all countries where it operates and applies to both salaried and shopfloor 
employees. UPM conducts an annual living wage assessment in 
collaboration with an external partner, using a proven methodology, 
process and benchmarks. UPM's partner helps define the baseline and 
provides living wage estimates for all countries and cities where UPM 
operates. 
UPM has also carried out an annual gender pay gap review and 
corrected unexplained pay gaps since 2021. UPM's commitment to 
gender pay equity covers all countries where UPM operates and applies to 
both salaried and shopfloor employees. UPM's gender pay equity review 
seeks to identify possible gender pay gaps that cannot be explained by 
such factors as job performance, work experience, job grade, or location, 
or any other legitimate factors that typically determine pay and its 
development.
In 2023, UPM joined the UN Global Compact Forward Faster Initiative 
with 138 other companies. The goal of this initiative is to accelerate 
progress towards the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals. By joining 
the Gender Equality area of action, UPM commits to advance equal 
representation, participation, and leadership across all levels of 
management and equal pay for work of equal value. UPM's commitment 
in particular encompasses two focus areas: promoting gender equality 
and ensuring living wages.
Actions in 2025
• Annual review conducted successfully for both gender pay equity and 
living wage review, and identified gaps have been closed
• Continuous and proactive training and coaching for managers and 
business HRs conducted to support them in pay determining 
situations. In addition, a tool is offered to support business HRs in pay 
equity in pay determining situations.
• Continuous focus on robust people processes and reliable and 
comprehensive data
Planned actions
• Continue to develop methodology and process for both gender pay 
equity and living wage annual reviews, in collaboration with established 
external partners, to gain further potential and drive progress in fair 
rewarding focus areas  
• Continue to discuss these topics with various stakeholders across the 
organization and continue the training
• Preparations for the implementation of the EU Pay Transparency 
Directive to ensure compliance with new requirements coming into 
effect in 2026
Safe and healthy working environment
Key actions
UPM's safety work is based on long-term planning, effective 
communications, and leadership. Safety is integrated into all UPM's daily 
operations, and in new and ongoing projects, proactive safety is an 
integral part of project plans and site practices.
UPM's H&S management systems are based on the principle of 
continuous improvement and include extensive internal and external 
audits and management reviews. The systems cover 100% of UPM's units 
and all their employees, as well as all contractors working on site. Annual 
safety audits are an integral part of UPM's H&S management system. 
Cross-functional audits provide valuable feedback on selected H&S 
UPM Financial Report 2025 213
UPM Annual Report 2025212 213
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

processes and daily activities. UPM's safety standards cover procedures 
such as risk assessment, permits to work, safe contractor work, safety 
reporting, etc. 
All accidents, near-misses, and other incidents are documented and 
evaluated in UPM's global safety tool. UPM also documents incidents 
involving contractors' employees. All employees and contractors have 
access to the tool and are encouraged to report deviations and also 
positive safety observations. UPM aims to have an accident-free 
workplace. All accidents are thoroughly investigated in close cooperation 
with the authorities and contractors. Corrective and preventive actions 
are initiated, and the key learning points are shared across all operations 
to prevent similar accidents in the future. The thorough investigation of 
incidents and effective risk management play an important role in 
making UPM's operations safer. UPM recognizes exemplary safety 
performance with company-wide awards. 
The safety training needs of UPM's employees are assessed based on 
the employee's role and needed safety-related skills and competence and 
input from safety committees, suggestions from employees or 
management, results of audits and incident investigations, changes in 
legislation, changes in processes, etc. A training plan is then drafted, and 
relevant trainers are identified. Trainers can be internal experts or external 
specialists. Safety training can take the form of e-learning, classroom 
sessions, hands-on training, or a combination of these.
Actions in 2025
• The company-wide Safety project aiming to improve safety-related 
processes and tools from employees’ perspective was completed. The 
focus areas of the project covered various topics from improving the 
safety onboarding and training to more user-friendly digital tools and 
systems and improving the efficiency of the safety audits to boosting 
the safety culture and leadership. 
• UPM continued to systematically develop process safety–related 
competencies, with the number of completed process safety trainings 
increasing by approximately 70% compared to the previous year. The 
current state analysis of process safety continued in operations 
including the definition of the business area specific development plans 
for the coming years. Process safety development items were executed 
according to the business area or mill specific plans. Process safety 
aspects were reviewed as part of the loss prevention surveys conducted 
by an external partner at the mills. 
• UPM continued to implement the UPM Health and Well-being concept. 
The health and well-being pulse survey was conducted in May. In general, 
scores were the same or slightly better than in 2024 pulse survey.  
Planned actions
• Implementation of the improved safety processes developed in the 
company-wide Safety project will continue in 2026.
• Safety development projects will continue focusing on the digital tools 
and systems.
• UPM will continue to organize process safety related targeted trainings. 
The business areas will continue to implement their own process safety 
action plans.
• The development of a global concept for occupational health will 
continue.
Resources
In general, workforce-related activities are included in UPM's overall 
investment and resource planning.
UPM Financial Report 2025 214
Targets
S1-5
Targets related to UPM's workforce
To manage its sustainability activities, UPM has set several targets and 
key performance indicators for its workforce-related sustainability focus 
areas. UPM's sustainability targets are developed internally by UPM by 
taking the views, wishes, and perspectives of external stakeholders from 
UPM's constant multi-stakeholder dialogue into account. The targets are  
approved by the GET. Refer to » ESRS 2 GOV-1 Oversight and 
management of impacts, risks and opportunities
Sustainability focus area and 
key performance indicator Base year
Base year 
value 2030 target
Target follow-up 
2025 (2024)
Continuous learning and development
Goal setting discussions are held, and development 
plans are created for employees
2021 88% and 
70%
100% completion rate 86% (85%) of employees completed individual goal 
setting or annual discussion, 81% (78%) of employees 
had a development plan documented
Employee perception of good opportunities to learn and 
grow, as evaluated in the Employee Engagement Survey
2021 Below 
benchmark
Clearly above 
benchmark
Average score of 65 (65). Below global average 
benchmark by 8 points.
Responsible leadership
Employee engagement, as evaluated in the Employee 
Engagement Survey
2021 Below 
benchmark
Clearly above 
benchmark
Average score of 67 (70). Below global
average benchmark by 8 points.
Diversity and inclusion
Employees' sense of belonging as evaluated in the 
Employee Engagement Survey
2021 Below 
benchmark
Among the top 10% of 
benchmark companies
Average score of 67 (68). Below top 10%
benchmark companies by 13 points.
Continuous improvement in female representation in 
professional and managerial roles. Developing leadership 
and decision-making capabilities with increased diversity
2022 30.7% 40% female 
representation
35.4% (34.5%)
Diversity and inclusion initiative Since 2021 - Continuous Dialogue continued on developing inclusive behaviors. 
Implemented Safe Contact concept. Gender pay gap 
closed.
Fair rewarding
Employees' pay meeting at least local living wage: 
implementing an annual review
Since 2021 - Continuous Company-wide review done considering the threshold 
of typical family for local living wage. Pay adjustments 
implemented to close identified pay gaps related to 
local living wage.
Gender pay equity for all employees: implementing an 
annual review process to identify and close unexplained 
pay gaps
Since 2021 - Continuous Company-wide review done, and pay adjustments 
implemented to close identified statistically significant 
unexplained gaps related to gender.
Safe and healthy working environment
Fatalities or serious accidents in UPM operations Since 2015 - 0 (continuous) 0 (0) fatal accidents, 2 (3) serious accidents
Total recordable injury frequency (TRIF), including 
contractors
2017 8.5 <2 TRIF 6.4 (6.1) for UPM workforce and 
5.0 (5.1), including contractors
Process safety integrated in safety management Since 2021 - All sites and businesses Process safety action plan implementation and 
competence development continued in all business 
areas
Employees' sense of work-life balance, as evaluated in 
the Employee Engagement Survey
2022 Below 
benchmark
Among the top 10% of 
benchmark companies
Average score of 73 (72). Below top 10% benchmark 
companies by 7 points
Absenteeism rate, UPM employees 2015 3.7% <2% 4.2% (4.2%)
UPM regularly measures progress. For example, the results of the annual 
Employee Engagement Survey (EES) are used as key performance 
indicators for several of the targets. The high participation rate of 78% 
(76%) indicates that UPM's employees are interested in improving their 
workplace. For other targets, key performance indicators are also followed 
up at least annually at Group level. H&S indicators such as TRIF are 
UPM Financial Report 2025 215
UPM Annual Report 2025214 215
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

followed up monthly. Benchmark comparisons are used for specific 
indicators, referring to the survey provider’s Global Benchmark, which is 
based on survey data compiled from all of the provider’s customers. The 
targets “among the top 10% of benchmark companies” refer to the survey 
provider’s Global High Performing Benchmark, representing the top 10th 
percentile.
Metrics
Characteristics of UPM's employees
S1-6
Headcount by gender
Gender
Number of employees 
(headcount) 2025
Number of employees 
(headcount) 2024
Male* 11,441 11,989
Female* 3,673 3,835
Not disclosed* 2 3
Not reported** 11 0
Total employees 15,127 15,827
*Gender as reported by the employee. At UPM, employees can choose the gender they 
report. UPM does not have visibility of the legal gender of its employees.
** Employee-related data is not yet maintained in UPM systems
Headcount by country (with more than 50 employees)
Gender
Number of employees 
(headcount) 2025
Number of employees 
(headcount) 2024
Finland 5,866 6,222
Germany 3,134 3,390
United Kingdom 582 445
Poland 1,268 1,270
France 165 197
Austria 6 7
Estonia 260 263
Spain 64 64
China  1,371 1,513
United States 719 745
Uruguay 887 874
Malaysia 163 162
South Africa 30 39
Mexico 124 133
Refer to » Report of the Board of Directors, Key figures: personnel at the 
end of period.  
Headcount by gender and contract type
Female* Male* Not disclosed* Not reported Total
Number of employees (headcount) 3,673 11,441 2 11  15,127 
Number of permanent employees 
(headcount) 3,338 10,612 2  —  13,952 
Number of temporary employees 
(headcount) 335 829 0  —  1,164 
Number of non-guaranteed hours 
employees (headcount)** 9 29 0  —  38 
Number of full-time employees 
(headcount) 3,429 11,182 2  —  14,613 
Number of part-time employees 
(headcount) 244 259 0  —  503 
*Gender as reported by the employee. At UPM, employees can choose the gender they report. UPM does not have visibility of the legal gender of its employees.
**Of all the countries in which UPM operates, only Finland currently uses the term 'non-guaranteed hours employees'. UPM is currently collecting information about whether such employees 
exist in other countries. For Finland, the number of such employees is very small, and reporting the number is therefore not considered material.
UPM Financial Report 2025 216
Headcount by region
Americas Asia Europe Rest of the world Total
Number of employees (headcount) 1,775 1,697  11,578 77  15,127 
Number of permanent employees (headcount) 1,754 1,384  10,739 75  13,952 
Number of temporary employees (headcount) 18 309  835 2  1,164 
Number of non-guaranteed hours employees (headcount)* 0 0  38 0  38 
Number of full-time employees (headcount) 1,742 1,692  11,104 75  14,613 
Number of part-time employees (headcount) 30 1  470 2  503 
*Of all the countries in which UPM operates, only Finland currently uses the term 'non-guaranteed hours employees'. UPM is currently collecting information about whether such employees 
exist in other countries. For Finland, the number of such employees is very small, and reporting on these employees is therefore not considered material.
Employee turnover
2025 2024
Total number of employees who left 
UPM 1,980 2,148
Rate of employee turnover  13.1%  13.6% 
Reporting principles for metrics
Employee figures are based on UPM's global total headcount definition, 
including employees classified as active and inactive, and are calculated 
as heads unless otherwise stated. Headcount is calculated at the end of 
the reporting period. 
All types of contracts are divided into two categories: permanent and 
temporary ("fixed-term" in GRI and UPM terminology). Permanent 
contracts include all contracts valid until further notice, as well as 
employees not covered by employment contracts, such as in the U.S., 
where all employees are classified as "Employment at Will".
Turnover is calculated based on the number of all types of 
terminations, whether voluntary or involuntary (number of persons leaving 
Jan. 1–Dec. 31/Total headcount Dec. 31).
Contextual information
In 2025, UPM Communication Papers closed its Kaukas paper mill in 
Finland and its Ettringen paper mill in Germany. UPM Adhesive Materials 
transferred production from the Kaltenkirchen site in Germany to other 
European sites and decided to convert the Nancy factory in France into a 
slitting and distribution terminal in 2026. As part of a long-term strategic 
partnership, UPM Fibres sold its Korkeakoski sawmill in Finland to 
Versowood. In 2025, UPM also exited the biomedical business. In February 
2025, UPM Adhesive Materials acquired Metamark, a UK-based 
company with a manufacturing site in Lancaster. 
UPM's total headcount figure includes 11 employees for whom the 
employee-related data is not yet maintained in UPM systems. These 
employees are included in the total headcount and the headcount by 
country but are otherwise defined as "not reported".
Characteristics of non-employees in UPM's 
own workforce 
S1-7
Headcount of non-employees
2025 2024
Total number of non-employees 
(agency-hires)  in UPM's own 
workforce 409 344
The number of agency hires has been fairly stable throughout the year 
and over the years.
Reporting principles for metrics
UPM's non-employees consist of two categories: independent 
contractors; and agency hires. Independent contractors are self-
employed individuals who provide services or labor to UPM and are 
bound by a direct contractual arrangement other than a contract of 
employment. UPM currently estimates that the number of such 
independent contractors in UPM is very small and therefore not material 
to report. Agency hires are individuals employed by employment agencies 
or labor contractors to work at UPM's sites under UPM's direct 
supervision. Agency hires are not directly employed by UPM.
The most common type of non-employees are agency-hired 
employees, who are provided to UPM by companies whose main activity 
is employment. Agency-hired employees do not have an employment 
contract with UPM and are not included in UPM's official employee 
figures. Examples of the types of work they perform are: production 
operators; mechanical technicians; automation technicians; forklift truck 
operators; quality operators; and converting department operators; 
finishing department operators; coating department operators; or 
administration and finance specialists.
UPM has made an internal survey across all sites to gather information 
about the number of independent contractors. The number of 
independent contractors is very small, thus they are not material to report. 
UPM Financial Report 2025 217
UPM Annual Report 2025216 217
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Collective bargaining coverage and 
social dialogue
S1-8
The percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining 
agreements was 48% (49%) in 2025. 
Collective bargaining coverage Social dialogue
Coverage 
rate
Employees – EEA*
(for countries with >50 empl. 
representing >10% total empl.**)
Employees – non-EEA*
(estimate for regions with >50 empl. 
representing >10% total empl.)
Workplace representation (EEA* only)
(for countries with >50 empl. 
representing >10% total empl.)
0–19% — Asia —
20–39% — — —
40–59% Finland Americas —
60–79% Germany — —
80–100% — — Finland, Germany
*European Economic Area
**For UPM operating countries, only Finland and Germany fulfil these criteria
Since 2010, UPM has had its own European Forum agreement, which is an 
agreement provided for the European Works Council (EWC) Directive and 
covers UPM employees in EEA.
Diversity metrics
S1-9
Gender distribution of top management
Gender
Top management*
Number Percentage
Female 30  36% 
Male 54  64% 
* Two levels below the President and CEO, excluding assistants
Employees by age group
Age group
Number of employees 
(headcount) 2025
Number of employees 
(headcount) 2024
Under 30 1,875 2,071
30–50 7,844 8,188
Over 50  5,397  5,568 
Not reported 11  0 
Total 15,127  15,827 
UPM Financial Report 2025 218
Adequate wages
S1-10
All UPM own employees are paid at least an adequate wage in line with 
applicable benchmarks in the disclosure requirements. UPM is using the 
living wage concept to review this annually. The living wage is an 
equivalent concept to adequate wages, which provides a more specific 
cost of local living as a benchmark. UPM's living wage review is conducted 
annually in cooperation with an established external partner using a 
proven methodology, process and benchmark, including local living wage 
threshold values of typical family for all UPM's operating countries and 
cities. If any pay gaps are identified, adjustments to pay are made 
annually. 
UPM's living wage review is global by default, applies to both salaried 
and shopfloor employees in UPM operating countries, and includes those 
workforce segments where salaries can be reasonably and fairly adjusted. 
If the global assessment shows unexpected wage gaps, they are 
corrected. In the review, an employee’s total annual salary is assessed 
against the local living wage threshold. Total annual salary includes pay 
elements which are qualified as regular and guaranteed pay, e.g. base 
salary, regular shift pay, and fixed cash allowances. All unexpected living 
wage gaps are vetted by appropriate human resource personnel. Local 
information is utilized to validate the proposed adjustments to make sure 
that all contextual factors are taken into account. These control 
mechanisms ensure that living wage adjustments are also locally justified 
and enable UPM to correct living wage gaps. 
Social protection
S1-11
For 2025, UPM’s disclosure covers its ten largest operating countries: 
Finland, Germany, Uruguay, China, Poland, the U.S, the UK, Estonia, 
France, and Malaysia. These countries account for approximately 95% of 
UPM’s employees. Employees in these countries are covered against 
sickness, unemployment, injury and disability, parental leave, and 
retirement. In the U.S., the parental leave coverage includes only maternity 
leave. In the UK, the injury and disability coverage applies after five years 
of service. 
Persons with disabilities
S1-12
Due to legal restrictions, UPM cannot require its employees to report their 
disabilities. This information can only be collected on a voluntary basis, 
and UPM does not currently collect such information.
Training and skills development 
S1-13
In 2025, 81% (78%) of employees had documented development plans, 
and 86% (85%) had completed individual goal setting or annual 
discussion.
Participation in regular performance and career development reviews
Development plan 
documented
Individual goal setting or 
annual discussion 
completed
Female  74%  82% 
Male  83%  87% 
Not disclosed — —
Total  81%  86% 
Average number of training hours per employee
2025 2024
Female 8 8
Male 9 9
Not disclosed — —
Total 9 9
Health and safety 
S1-14
Percentage of employees covered by H&S management systems
2025 2024
UPM's H&S management system  100%  100% 
Third-party certified H&S management system  74%  74% 
All UPM's employees are covered by UPM's Health and Safety (H&S) 
management system. The majority of UPM's production units have the 
ISO 45001 Occupational Health and Safety management system 
certification. In 2025, certified systems were in place in 43 units with a total 
of 11,200 employees, which covers 74% of all UPM employees.
The number of non-employees in UPM's own workforce (agency hires) 
is so small that it would not affect the overall percentage, so the 
breakdown is not disclosed.
UPM Financial Report 2025 219
UPM Annual Report 2025218 219
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Health and Safety (H&S) metrics for UPM workforce
UPM workforce 2025 2024
Total injuries per one million hours worked, TRIF * 6.4 6.1
Lost-time accidents per one million hours worked, 
LTAF 4.0 3.4
Number of accidents * 164 166
Number of serious accidents 1 2
Number of fatalities ** 0 0
Number of days lost due to work-related injuries * 4,300 3,200
Absenteeism % 4.2 4.2
Number of work-related ill-health cases *** 12 4
*The number of non-employees in UPM's own workforce (agency hires) is so small that a 
breakdown is not material.
**No non-employees fatalities – breakdown therefore not disclosed.
***No work-related illnesses involving non-employees – breakdown therefore not disclosed.
 Health and Safety (H&S) metrics for UPM workforce and contractors
UPM workforce including contractors 2025 2024
Total injuries per one million hours worked, TRIF 5.0 5.1
Lost-time accidents per one million hours worked, 
LTAF 3.2 3.2
Number of accidents 225 253
Number of serious accidents 2 3
Number of fatalities 0 0
Reporting principles for metrics
Lost-time accident frequency 
Lost-time accidents per million hours worked. The calculation is as 
follows: ('Lost Time Accidents'+'Serious Accidents'+'Fatal accidents')/
(Actual hours worked)*1,000,000. Lost time accident – an accident at work 
which resulted in one or more days of absence or disability. Lost-time 
accident type excludes modified duties, medical treatment, and first aid 
cases but includes serious and fatal accidents. UPM reports separately 
for workforce (including UPM employees and supervised workers) and 
contractors. Disclosure is based on the following annual data: incidents 
occurring from January to December; and actual hours worked from 
December to November.
Total Recordable Injury Frequency 
Recordable injuries per million hours worked. The calculation is as follows: 
('Lost Time Accidents'+'Serious Accidents'+'Fatal accidents'+'Modified 
duty'+'Medical treatment')/'Actual hours worked (UPM)'*1,000,000. Total 
Recordable Injury type excludes first aid cases. UPM reports separately 
for workforce (including UPM employees and supervised workers) and 
contractors. Disclosure is based on the following annual data: incidents 
occurring from January to December; and actual hours worked from 
December to November.
Contractors and contractor working hours 
A contractor is a person or organization which provides services to UPM 
as agreed. Contractor personnel are not directly employed by UPM. 
Contractors' actual working time consists of all hours contractors have 
worked in UPM premises or under UPM supervision. Contractor working 
hours are used to calculate lost-time accident frequency and total 
recordable injury frequency. If working hours are not collected based on a 
time attendance system, an estimate is used. UPM has defined and 
published the method for calculating contractor working hours if the 
exact number is unavailable. Estimates are based on the number of 
workers or on contract monetary value.
Absenteeism % 
Absence percentage due to illness and accidents at work. Illness includes 
Absence hours due to illness, Absences due to accidents during travel to/
from work and Absence hours due to accidents during time off work. 
Accidents at work include Absences due to accidents at work and 
Absences due to occupational diseases and illnesses. These figures are 
added and then divided by Theoretical working time and then multiplied 
by 100. All hours of absence from work due to accidents at work are 
included (including the hours of the day when the accident occurred). 
Number of occupational diseases 
(= Work-related ill health) 
The number of new cases which have been officially diagnosed and 
reported as occupational diseases during the reporting year. The 
reporting year is the last year, except for Germany, where cases are 
reported for the penultimate year.
Serious occupational accidents 
(= High-consequence work-related injuries) 
Accidents at work causing: Life-threatening injury requiring intervention of 
emergency response personnel to provide life sustaining support; Life-
altering injury/Permanent disability: An injury resulting in permanent or 
long-term impairment or loss of use of an external organ, body function, 
or body part.
UPM Financial Report 2025 220
Remuneration metrics
S1-16
Gender pay gap
From 2021, UPM has carried out on a voluntary basis an annual 
company-wide process to review and close any possibly identified 
unexplained pay gap between the genders. The review applies to all UPM's 
operating countries and includes both salaried and shopfloor employees. 
This commitment is in alignment with the company’s disclosed 2030 
social responsibility targets in the fair rewarding focus area. For this 
annual review, UPM applies a framework of an adjusted pay gap concept, 
which takes the typical legitimate drivers of pay and pay development 
into account – for example, the type and level of the job performed, the 
country and the location of the job, the individual’s performance and work 
experience, etc. These drivers are included in the review using a statistical 
model. If any unexplained pay gaps are identified between men and 
women performing the same type of job with equal value, the company is 
committed to close them on an annual basis. In 2025, UPM continued 
monitoring the situation through the established process, and pay 
adjustments were implemented to close identified statistically significant 
unexplained gaps related to gender. The company's initiative is 
exceptional among its peer companies. Further details on the statistical 
methodology can be found in the UPM GRI content index. 
The raw pay gap, as defined by the standard S1-16 and its disclosure 
requirements, is calculated purely by dividing the difference of average 
gross hourly pay of all male and all female employees by the average 
gross hourly pay of all male employees. In contrast with the adjusted 
gender pay gap framework, this raw pay gap framework and calculation 
does not take into account, for example, the number and distribution of 
the company's male and female employees in different countries and 
locations or the different types and levels of jobs performed by the 
company's male and female employees, or the experience and 
performance of the employees and the varying labor market conditions, 
all of which are considered legitimate factors typically driving pay and pay 
development decisions. Consequently, as the legitimate factors affecting 
pay in real life are not captured in the calculation methodology, the 
calculated pay gap value is purely artificial and not a representation of 
real equal pay practices in the company's countries of operation. The 
company's voluntary commitment to an annual review of gender pay 
equity status via the adjusted pay gap framework takes these legitimate 
factors into account as described above. 
In 2025, the UPM global raw pay gap, calculated in accordance with 
disclosure requirements as of December 31, 2025, was 9.7%. 
Total remuneration ratio
The annual total remuneration ratio of the highest paid individual to the 
median paid employee at UPM is 24.9. The total annual remuneration 
includes the following elements: salaries, allowances, bonuses and share-
based payments. The pay ratio is calculated by dividing the remuneration 
of UPM's highest paid individual with the remuneration of UPM median 
paid employee. 
Incidents, complaints and severe human 
rights impacts
S1-17
No severe human rights incidents connected to UPM's workforce were 
reported during the reporting period. The severity of incidents is assessed 
based on the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. 
47 (57) cases, which were reported by employees and other 
stakeholders through UPM’s misconduct channel, were falling under the 
category of “Respect people and human rights” in 2025. More specifically, 
these related to e.g., alleged discrimination or harassment, inappropriate 
behavior, breach of safety rules, and alleged breach of labor laws in 
connection with recruitment or termination of employment. The number 
of alleged discrimination or harassment cases was 7 in 2025. Only a 
minority relate to gender-based discrimination, with a few reported cases 
each year.   
UPM's employees have multiple ways to raise concerns: they can 
discuss them with their manager, discuss them with a representative of 
UPM's Legal and Compliance, Human Resources or Internal Audit 
functions, or they can use the UPM Report Misconduct channel (available 
anonymously). Refer to » G1-1, Reporting and identifying concerns
UPM Financial Report 2025 221
UPM Annual Report 2025220 221
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Workers in the value chain (ESRS S2)
UPM's human rights due diligence process includes various actions to gain an insight into the perspective of 
workers. These include forest certification systems and related audits and worker engagement, supplier audits, and 
contractor reviews, including respective worker interviews and continuous dialogue with suppliers.
Supplier audits conducted based on
identified sustainability-related risks
Contractor reviews with focus 
on working conditions in Uruguay
Training for employees 
and suppliers on the 
renewed UPM Supplier 
and Third-Party Code80 2,000
UPM Financial Report 2025 222
Impacts, risks and opportunities
ESRS 2 SBM-3
Overview of material impacts, risks and opportunities
Material topics Impacts, risks and opportunities Description
Sourcing Potential negative impact*: Human rights 
violations affecting people in the supply chain 
There is a risk in UPM's multi-tier supply chain related to labor exploitation, forced labor, 
health and safety, and environmental incidents, for example. UPM's sourcing practices aim 
to minimize the risk and any potential negative impacts to people or the environment.
Opportunity: Creating business value through 
supplier development and collaboration
UPM seizes sustainability-related opportunities to create business value through supplier 
development and collaboration. UPM's sourcing targets focus on selected environmental, 
social and governance issues. UPM uses joint development and innovation projects with its 
suppliers and various sustainability initiatives to promote sustainability in selected areas.
Risk: Disruptions in UPM's supply chain A lack of skilled workforce is a risk for UPM's supply chains and sourcing. Traditional blue-
collar jobs may not attract new skilled employees e.g. in forest harvesting or traditional 
manufacturing jobs.
Health and safety at 
UPM sites and 
forestry operations
Positive impact: Increased focus on health and 
safety measures for contractors working at UPM's 
operations  
Contractor safety is a Group-wide focus area for the company. All contractor workers 
receive a general safety induction and detailed safety training focusing on specific risks at 
their workplace.
Negative impact*: Health and safety incidents, 
including serious accidents and fatalities for 
contractors working at UPM's operations 
Although several measures are taken to prevent injuries and accidents to employees and 
contractors on UPM's production sites and forestry operations, a risk remains. The 
importance of health and safety is also addressed and followed up with contractors, but 
negative impacts can occur. These negative impacts are related to individual incidents.
Risk: Potential injury to UPM's contractors or third 
parties working at UPM’s operations
Failure to maintain a high level of safety management could result in physical injury, illness, 
or liability to UPM's contractors or third parties. These risks are managed through 
established management procedures, health and safety precautions, and loss prevention 
programs.
* UPM's identified material potential negative impacts are not seen as widespread or systemic but are related to potential individual incidents.
Relation to UPM's business model and 
strategy
Suppliers are an essential part of UPM's value chain. They also play an 
important role in UPM's business-specific growth projects. Supplier 
management, with the required competencies and digitalization, boosts 
product development and the commercialization of new products. Refer 
to » ESRS 2 SBM-1, Suppliers
UPM buys products, materials, and services from some  17,000 B2B 
suppliers worldwide. Approximately 51,000 contractors' workers provided 
services, such as maintenance, construction, and logging on UPM's 
production sites and forestry operations during 2025.
Description of value chain workers in UPM's 
reporting scope
The following categories of value chain workers could be materially 
impacted by UPM and are included in the scope of UPM's disclosure:
• Workers working on the undertaking site but who are not part of UPM's 
own workforce: Contractors and their workers or subcontractors who 
work on UPM's production sites and forestry operations. The workers are 
controlled by the contractor and perform services such as technical and 
maintenance services, construction services and forestry services, 
facility services like cleaning, catering or security, IT services, etc.
• Workers working for entities in the undertaking's upstream value chain: 
Workers and contractors working for UPM's suppliers such as suppliers 
of raw materials or services.
• Workers working for entities in the undertaking’s downstream value 
chain: Workers and contractors working for UPM's service suppliers 
such as suppliers for outbound logistics.
• Particularly vulnerable workers: UPM recognizes young workers, 
migrant workers, women, indigenous peoples, and temporary and 
contractor workers as having a higher risk of potentially experiencing 
adverse human rights impacts. 
UPM Financial Report 2025 223
UPM Annual Report 2025222 223
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Country- and commodity- and industry-specific risks are assessed and 
mitigated within the scope of UPM's high sustainability risk supplier 
framework. These risks may occur beyond the second tier of UPM's 
supply chains and are commonly linked to primary production (such as 
agriculture, forestry, and mining) and/or countries' contexts where the rule 
of law is weaker.
Results of UPM's human rights due 
diligence
As part of UPM's ongoing human rights due diligence, UPM has identified 
groups who are at higher risk of experiencing potential adverse human 
rights impacts. Based on UPM's assessments and dialogue with various 
stakeholders, UPM has defined migrant workers, women, young workers, 
and temporary and contractor workers as groups with a higher risk of 
potential adverse human rights impacts across UPM's value chain. UPM 
also recognizes that indigenous people are often among the most 
marginalized and vulnerable populations.
UPM has identified its salient human rights issues, i.e. human rights 
that are at risk of the most severe negative impact from UPM's 
operations or business relationships. UPM regularly analyzes the saliency 
of its human rights impacts based on severity and likelihood, recognizing 
that UPM's impacts on people continue to evolve as its business changes, 
and its approach to due diligence develops.
UPM has identified forced labor and labor exploitation as a salient 
human rights risk in some of UPM's contracted services and global 
supply chains and recognizes migrants as a particularly vulnerable group 
of workers. In the latest saliency assessment, the risk rating of certain on-
site and forestry services was updated, and particular attention was paid 
to various business development projects and their assessment of 
human rights risks.
 UPM does not use or tolerate the use of forced labor in any form in its 
own operations or in its supply chains.
Human rights due diligence is part of UPM's overall sustainability due 
diligence processes. Refer to » ESRS 2 GOV- 4 Sustainability due 
diligence
Policies
S2-1
The UPM Code of Conduct expresses the Company's respect for people 
and human rights, the environment, and ethical business practices. The 
Code is complemented by UPM's Sustainability Policy Statement, which 
addresses the topic and related processes in more detail. The UPM 
Supplier and Third-Party Code sets out minimum requirements for the 
value chain. Refer to » G1-1 Policies
In addition, specific aspects are covered in the following policy 
documents, programs and supplier requirements: 
• Supplier Assessment Criteria
• UPM Sustainable Supply Chain Program, Refer to » G1-2 Sustainable 
Supply Chain Program
• Category-specific requirements, e.g. for wood suppliers, pulp, 
chemicals, on-site contractors, or logistics 
• UPM Forest Action Program
• UPM Safety Rules, Refer to » S1-1 UPM’s Human Resources & Safety 
Rules
• UPM Safety requirements for contractors
• UPM Standard for Community Engagement and the Share and Care 
Program 
The UPM Supplier and Third-Party Code covers all suppliers and third 
parties (e.g. agents, advisers, representatives, joint ventures, joint venture 
partners, local partners, and distributors) acting on behalf of UPM. 
Suppliers are also covered by UPM's Sustainable Supply Chain Program, 
which addresses social topics, as well as environment and governance. In 
addition, wood suppliers and forest contractors are covered by the UPM 
requirements for wood suppliers and the UPM Forest Action Program. 
UPM's Safety Rules cover UPM's own workforce, as well as UPM's 
business partners and their employees, i.e. contractors, working on UPM's 
production sites and forest operations. These Rules are specified in more 
detail in UPM's Safety requirements for contractors.
UPM's human rights policy commitments
UPM is committed to respecting human rights in line with the United 
Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. UPM 
respects the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO 
Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and the 
OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. UPM also promotes the 
human-rights-related principles of the UN Global Compact. UPM expects 
a similar commitment from its suppliers, third parties, and joint venture 
partners, as set out in the UPM Supplier and Third-Party Code.
UPM Financial Report 2025 224
Respect for human rights 
The UPM Supplier and Third-Party Code states that UPM's suppliers and 
third parties must:
• Treat people (e.g., own employees, employees of contractors and other 
suppliers, and stakeholders) with dignity.
• Respect universal human rights such as access to clean and healthy 
environment, freedom of thought, opinion, expression, religion, and 
freedom from any discrimination based on e.g., race, age, nationality, 
gender or sexual orientation, political or union affiliation, or freedom 
from any form of harassment.
• Identify, prevent, and mitigate adverse human rights impacts in its 
operations and activities. 
• Provide adequate wages and respect local laws and applicable industry 
standards on working time and compensation, freedom of association, 
and right to collective bargaining.
• Respect children's rights and not use or tolerate the use of child labor. 
Follow the minimum age set by local laws or the International Labour 
Organization’s (ILO) definition of minimum age of 15 years, whichever is 
higher. Ensure that special protections are in place for young workers 
(those below the age of 18 and above the legal minimum working age). 
• Ensure no form of forced labor (including, but not limited to, modern 
slavery and human trafficking) is used or tolerated in any of its 
operations or activities directly or indirectly.
• Ensure the health, safety, and security of its employees, other people 
working on its sites and premises (e.g. employees of contractors), 
visitors as well as other people impacted by its operations.
• Comply with UPM's safety requirements when working at or visiting 
UPM sites and carry out necessary safety training. Ensure that the 
rights and title to property and land of the individual, indigenous people, 
and local communities are respected.
UPM strives to ensure compliance with its values and commitments by 
implementing a company-wide compliance program through the UPM 
compliance system. The compliance system is embedded in UPM's 
governance model and is designed to enhance company performance 
and a culture of integrity at all levels. Risk assessments, including human 
rights-related risks, are part of the UPM compliance system. 
Refer to » G1-3 UPM Compliance system
UPM has ongoing due diligence processes to identify, prevent, 
mitigate, and account for how UPM addresses its adverse impacts on 
people or the environment. In terms of human rights and environmental 
due diligence in its supply chain, UPM uses a risk-based approach that 
consists of various elements applied before and during the onboarding of 
new suppliers and monitoring of business partners. These elements 
include counterparty screening, enhanced due diligence and Know Your 
Supplier screenings, forest and other certification systems, third-party 
sustainability assessments by EcoVadis, and the high sustainability risk 
supplier framework and model. We also conduct regular supplier audits 
and contractor reviews. 
In 2025, UPM carried out 80 (97) supplier audits and reviews globally.  
In addition, subcontractor workers were interviewed on their terms and 
conditions of work during the pulp mill maintenance shutdowns in 
Finland. In Uruguay, about 2000 contractor reviews focusing on working 
conditions were carried out.
Refer to » G1-2 Supplier audits and reviews
For processes related to engagement with value chain workers and 
measures to provide and/or enable remedy for human rights, refer to
» S2-2 and » S2-3.
Processes
Processes for engaging with 
value chain workers
S2-2
Stakeholder engagement is an essential part of UPM's business 
operations and activities and is implemented as appropriate to the topic 
and the nature and scale of the activities.
Occupational health and safety is one of UPM's salient human rights 
issues in the supply chain. UPM's internal H&S audit program includes 
engagement with contractors’ employees. Contractors and their 
employees on UPM's sites are required to adopt UPM's safe working 
practices and to comply with the rules and standards established by 
UPM. UPM also expects them to participate in hazard identification and 
proactive safety reporting. Before entering a UPM production site, 
contractors are required to attend UPM's safety induction and training, 
which covers the company's safety requirements. 
In UPM's wood sourcing and forestry operations a continuous 
dialogue with stakeholders is also essential. The FSC Controlled Wood 
requirements are the minimum requirements that UPM applies to all its 
sourced wood (100% coverage). The requirements include a wide range of 
criteria related to the legality of the wood, respect for traditional and civil 
rights (including the rights of indigenous and tribal people), protection of 
areas of high conservation values, maintaining or improving the social 
and economic well-being of workers, and stakeholder engagement and 
dialogue. Processes are in place for providing feedback or submitting 
concerns to UPM. Refer to » S2-3 Processes for raising and handling 
concerns. Feedback and concerns are handled promptly in accordance 
with the chain-of-custody, forest certification and ISO 14001 
environmental management systems. Stakeholders are informed of the 
actions taken by UPM in response to their feedback. 
There is also an annual stakeholder consultation process related to 
UPM's FSC forest management certificates. The focus of the consultation 
process is to identify forests with high conservation values and the 
actions required to maintain them. During the consultation process, 
stakeholders are also invited to express their other views on forest 
certification. 
In general, UPM's human rights due diligence processes include steps 
and measures to gain insight into the perspective of workers. These 
include forest certification systems and related audits and worker 
engagement, supplier audits, and contractor reviews, including respective 
worker interviews and continuous dialogue with suppliers by UPM 
sourcing professionals or through collaboration forums such as the 
Together for Sustainability (TfS) initiative or UN Global Compact. In 
Uruguay, UPM conducts social monitoring involving contractor workers. 
UPM also promotes local and global grievance mechanisms.  
UPM Financial Report 2025 225
UPM Annual Report 2025224 225
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

The Senior Vice President of the Sourcing function and the Executive 
Vice Presidents of the business areas have the operational responsibility 
for ensuring engagement with value chain workers.
Processes for raising and handling 
concerns 
S2-3
UPM monitors and works to remediate negative human rights impacts of 
which it becomes aware, and which the company's activities have 
contributed to or caused. Remediation is specified case by case, based 
on verified impacts.
UPM establishes channels for reporting concerns, reviews reports 
carefully, handles personal data appropriately, ensures protection against 
retaliation, and treats all reports in strict confidence. Investigations are 
conducted by designated people with the necessary competences. If a 
report is substantiated, UPM takes appropriate disciplinary and/or legal 
action, and lessons are learned.  Refer to » G1-1 Reporting and identifying 
concerns 
Local stakeholders can report their concerns directly to UPM 
representatives at the mills and other sites and through locally provided 
channels such as email and telephone. In addition, UPM has other local 
grievance channels for specific business contexts and local needs such 
as the “how am I driving” solution in Uruguay, which focuses on road 
safety.
UPM Report Misconduct channel SpeakUp® is communicated to the 
suppliers as part of the UPM Supplier and Third-Party Code.  Suppliers 
are also informed about the existing grievance mechanisms, e.g. during 
supplier audits and other interactions such as contractor safety 
induction. The forest certification systems also have existing grievance 
mechanisms.
Actions
S2-4
UPM's identified material topics have been defined as a result of a double 
materiality assessment, including UPM's Corporate Human Rights 
Saliency Assessment, considering impacts, risks, and opportunities 
related to workers in the value chain. The following UPM focus areas are 
relevant for workers in the value chain:
• Responsible sourcing (with a target on spend covered by UPM Supplier 
and Third-Party Code);
• Forestry (with a target for certified fibre share)
• Safe and healthy working environment (with targets for fatalities, 
serious accidents and injury frequency)
Action plans have been established to achieve the Group-level targets, as 
well as other relevant areas for continuous improvement. The key actions, 
previous year's key actions, planned key actions and overarching 
concepts are presented below.
UPM monitors the effectiveness of its actions to manage material 
impacts by tracking and reporting on the progress of its sustainability 
targets for 2030. Refer to » S2-5 Targets. Furthermore, UPM reviews the 
effectiveness of its risk management procedures quarterly through its 
Compliance system. Refer to » G1-3 UPM compliance system
Responsible sourcing 
Key action
UPM's responsible sourcing practices and priorities are formulated in the 
cohesive overarching Sustainable Supply Chain Program. Refer to 
» G1-2 Sustainable Supply Chain Program for a general description of the 
program and the risk mitigation approach. 
The program defines prioritized ESG topics. In the social area, these 
are labor and human rights, as well as health and safety. Based on 
systematic risk assessment, UPM engages in informed risk mitigation 
activities. UPM sourcing professionals promote respect for people and 
human rights among their suppliers. This means understanding the 
relevant risks associated with their sourcing categories, integrating these 
considerations into category strategies, and planning and implementing 
appropriate management activities. These activities can entail further 
supplier assessments, audits, and relevant corrective actions.
Actions in 2025
• Refer to » G1-2 Supplier audits and reviews 
• UPM continued its efforts in contractor management, focusing on 
contractors operating at UPM's production sites and in forestry. 
Limitations on the use of subcontractors were introduced, and the 
contractual requirements related to social responsibility and labor 
rights, specifically for on-site work, were strengthened. Furthermore, the 
subcontractor approval and due diligence processes were developed 
and internal trainings were organized to identify and address social 
responsibility risks in subcontracting chains. 
UPM Financial Report 2025 226
• During pulp mill maintenance shutdowns in Finland, UPM interviewed 
subcontractor employees to assess their working conditions. These 
interviews were followed by feedback sessions with contractors. 
• UPM introduced training for its renewed Supplier and Third-Party Code 
both for its employees and suppliers.
• Further advances were made in the supply chain collaboration 
program between UPM and its direct starch suppliers, which focuses 
on improving the working conditions of the farm workers in Thailand 
(UPM's tier 2-3 suppliers). Building on the previous program stages of 
farm auditing, identification of improvement areas, target setting and 
action planning, the program introduced Sustainable Agriculture 
Initiative's (SAI) Farm Sustainability Assessment (FSA) as a means of 
establishing and verifying adequate labor conditions at farms.
• A Corporate Human Rights Saliency Assessment was carried out.
• Implementation of the Sustainable Supply Chain Program continued.
Planned actions
• Continue development work and actions to achieve the targets set for 
2030.
• Continue the contractor management project in 2026. Refer to » S2-4 
Responsible sourcing, Actions in 2025
• Drive the implementation of the sustainable supply chain program in 
sourcing categories: The most relevant program themes for each 
sourcing category will be identified and integrated into category plans 
and strategies to guide everyday supplier management activities. 
Health and safety of contractors working 
on UPM sites and forest operations
UPM's safety work is based on long-term planning, effective 
communication, and leadership. Safety is integrated into all daily 
operations, and measures and standards cover UPM's own workforce, as 
well as contractors working on UPM's production sites and forest 
operations. For more information on key actions, actions in 2025 and 
planned actions, Refer to » S1-4 Safe and healthy working environment
UPM's actions, » S2-4 Actions,  and targets, » S2-5 Targets,  address 
the material risk which UPM identified related to workers in the value 
chain, » S2-1 Overview. The effectiveness of actions is tracked by a regular 
follow-up of targets. At the same time, the actions support the identified 
material opportunity by creating business value through supplier 
development and collaboration. Refer to » S2-1 Overview
Incidents and remediation 
In 2025, no severe human rights incidents were reported in connection 
with UPM's value chain that were caused or contributed to by UPM's 
activities. 
UPM monitors and works to remedy adverse human rights impacts of 
which it is aware, and which its activities have caused or contributed to. 
Remediation is specified case by case, based on verified impacts. The 
UPM compliance system covers remedy practices and ensures the 
adequacy of the process. 
Resources
In general, activities related to workers in the value chain are included in 
UPM's investment and resource planning.
UPM Financial Report 2025 227
UPM Annual Report 2025226 227
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Targets
S2-5
Targets related to UPM's value chain 
workers
To manage its sustainability activities, UPM has set a number of targets 
and key performance indicators for its sustainability focus areas covering 
the supply chain (forestry, responsible sourcing) and suppliers working on 
site in UPM's premises (health and safety). UPM's sustainability targets 
are developed internally by UPM by taking the views, wishes, and 
perspectives of external stakeholders from UPM's constant multi-
stakeholder dialogue into account. The targets are approved by the GET. 
Refer to » ESRS 2 GOV-1 Oversight and management of impacts, risks 
and opportunities
Sustainability focus area and key performance indicator
Base 
year
Base 
year value
2030 
target
Target follow-up
2025 (2024)
Forestry
Share of certified fibre * 2015 84% 100% 90% (88.5%)
Responsible sourcing
UPM total spend covered by UPM Supplier and Third-Party Code 2015 79% >80% 
(continuous)
86% (91%)
Safe and healthy working environment
Fatalities or serious accidents in UPM
operations
Since 2015 - 0 (continuous) 0 (0) fatal accidents, 2 (3) 
serious accidents
Total recordable injury frequency (TRIF), including contractors 2017 8.5  <2 TRIF 5.0 (5.1), including 
contractors
*Forest management certification
UPM's sustainability target-setting is based on an annually updated 
double materiality assessment, which includes the interests and concerns 
of various stakeholders. Refer to » ESRS 2 IRO-1 Materiality assessment 
process
UPM's sustainability targets are followed up at Group level at least 
annually.
In addition to setting targets, UPM continuously strives to improve its 
processes and performance, including in relation to workers in the value 
chain. The improvement areas are identified in various supplier 
assessments. Supplier audits and reviews form the basis for supplier 
development activities and collaboration, which drive improvement in the 
suppliers' performance. Corrective action plans and follow-up 
assessments and audits are utilized to confirm that identified 
improvement areas are addressed. For example, UPM's health and safety 
management systems are based on the principle of continuous 
improvement. Refer to » S1-4 Safe and healthy working environment for 
information about UPM's key actions in this area. Refer to » S1-14 Health 
and Safety for information about reporting principles for metrics such as 
TRIF.
UPM Financial Report 2025 228
Affected communities (ESRS S3)
UPM aims to be a good neighbor and trusted partner to all people, economies, and environments that are directly 
or indirectly affected by its operations. This means active engagement and dialogue with local communities.
A new UPM standard for 
community engagement 
and the Share and Care 
Program 
Supported local youth, 
education, and 
environmental initiatives in 
the mill communities, and 
global humanitarian 
organizations that provide 
aid to children suffering 
from conflicts
Under the Share and Care Program 
local support and charitable donations  
amounted to approximately 
1.7
€ million
UPM Financial Report 2025 229
UPM Annual Report 2025228 229
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Impacts, risks and opportunities
 ESRS 2 SBM-3
Overview of material impacts, risks and opportunities 
Material topics Impacts, risks and opportunities Description
Local engagement Positive impact: Impact on local development 
through UPM’s production sites and investments
UPM promotes positive impacts in local communities in various ways, for example, 
through the development of infrastructure. Surrounding communities also benefit from tax 
payments and employment opportunities. Measures also include apprenticeship programs 
in Finland, Germany, and Uruguay, and collaboration with educational institutions to 
contribute to science and research and increase the social capital and skills. UPM's Share 
and Care Program shares resources with causes that promote the vitality and well-being of 
communities where UPM operates. In Uruguay, the UPM Foundation (Fundación UPM) 
promotes education and entrepreneurship through cooperation with social organizations 
and local representatives.
Local engagement Potential negative impact*: Environmental 
incidents or safety incidents, as well as 
restructuring situations, may affect people in the 
communities surrounding UPM's sites and forestry 
operations
Potential material negative impacts can occur as a result of safety incidents in 
transportation to and from UPM's paper mills, pulp mills, biorefineries, and forestry 
operations, environmental incidents in UPM’s operations, or a decrease in employment and 
taxes because of UPM's restructuring measures, for example. UPM manages these for 
example by certified environmental and safety management systems, internal standards 
and other locally defined measures.
*UPM's identified material potential negative impacts are not seen as widespread or systemic but are related to potential individual incidents.
Relation to UPM's business model and 
strategy
Building and maintaining good relations with and supporting the vitality of 
local communities close to UPM's operations is essential for the 
acceptability of operations and identifying the challenges, key risks, and 
opportunities in the operating context. Active and open dialogue with 
communities supports the management of the impacts of UPM's 
operations and activities, and contributes to the sustainable development 
of surrounding communities. In general, human rights considerations and 
due diligence requirements are integrated into UPM's global processes, 
which form the basis for UPM's business model.
UPM identified its material positive and potential negative impacts for 
communities during its double materiality assessment, including the 
Corporate Human Rights Saliency Assessment. However, none of these 
material impacts is considered as resulting in a material financial risk or 
opportunity. Refer to » ESRS 2 IRO-1 Materiality assessment process
Description of communities affected by 
UPM's operations
The following types of communities could be materially impacted by UPM 
and are included in the scope of UPM's disclosure:
• Communities living or working around the undertaking’s operating 
sites: UPM considers the local communities close to its pulp mills, 
paper mills, biorefineries, and forestry operations as those who are 
potentially materially impacted by its operations. The main production 
units are UPM's pulp mills, paper mills, and biorefineries, which are 
located in China, Finland, Germany, the UK, Uruguay, and the U.S. 
UPM's own forest areas are located in Finland, Uruguay, and the U.S. 
They are considered particularly relevant due to their importance for 
local communities. The focus of UPM's reporting is on its operational 
countries with significant landholdings such as forestry or plantations 
operations.
• For example, UPM Forestal Oriental in Uruguay operates in five regions 
in the departments of Cerro Largo, Colonia, Durazno, Flores, Florida, 
Lavalleja, Paysandú, Río Negro, Rivera, Rocha, Salto, Soriano, 
Tacuarembó and Treinta y Tres. In every region, UPM identifies and 
works with affected communities. UPM reviews the planning of 
operations annually (including planting, harvesting, loading, and 
transportation), identifying the areas that will be affected, and the 
activities that will be carried out with the communities to prevent, 
mitigate, and accommodate such activities.
• Communities along the undertaking's value chain: UPM's wood and 
other applicable wood-based raw material sourcing complies with 
forest certification requirements on responsible land tenure and 
securing the land-use rights of indigenous peoples.
• Communities of indigenous people: UPM recognizes that the most 
marginalized and vulnerable populations (e.g. indigenous and tribal 
peoples) may be disproportionally affected by land acquisition and/or 
use of wood and other natural resources and therefore require special 
safeguards. UPM recognizes that its landholdings and wood sourcing 
in the U.S. may have potential impacts on indigenous communities. 
Forest certification systems and other safeguards are established to 
avoid potential negative impacts, so this is not considered a potential 
material negative impact.
UPM Financial Report 2025 230
Understanding potential impacts on 
communities
The material impacts, risks and opportunities related to affected 
communities have been identified in UPM's double materiality 
assessment and in UPM's Corporate Human Rights Saliency 
Assessment. In accordance with the UN Guiding Principles on Business 
and Human Rights (UNGPS), UPM pays particular attention to 
individuals or groups who may be at higher risk of negative human rights 
impacts due to their vulnerability or marginalization, such as women, 
young workers, migrant workers, and indigenous peoples. Active and open 
dialogue with local communities is key to understanding these potential 
and actual impacts in different operating contexts.
All UPM sites that may have a significant impact on local 
communities identify and map their stakeholders and engage with them 
according to their stakeholder engagement plan. This process allows 
them to identify and understand their potential impacts on local 
communities, build community dialogue, and support the planning of 
long-term initiatives. 
In Uruguay, UPM regularly conducts social monitoring surveys 
through an external provider to gather public opinion on its forestry 
operations, nurseries, and pulp mills. The surveys include interviews with 
local community members and contractor employees, focusing on their 
perceptions, knowledge, and expectations regarding UPM’s activities. 
Topics include plantation forestry, mill operations, environmental 
protection, certification, protected areas, job satisfaction, income, safety, 
and access to training. 
Because of their size and nature of their operations, UPM's pulp mills, 
paper mills, biorefineries, and forest operations are considered relevant for 
actual and potential material impacts on local communities such as 
community safety and land rights, for example. In recent years, there has 
been a special focus on pulp production and forest operations in Uruguay 
because of the construction and startup of a new pulp mill.  
Policies
S3-1
 
The UPM Code of Conduct expresses the company's respect for people 
and human rights, the environment, and ethical business practices. The 
Code is complemented by UPM's Sustainability Policy Statement, which 
addresses the engagement with stakeholders and society and company 
processes, e.g. related to sustainability due diligence. The UPM Supplier 
and Third-Party Code sets out minimum requirements for suppliers and 
other third parties. Refer to » G1-1 Policies 
 
In addition, specific aspects are covered in the following policy 
documents, programs and requirements:
• UPM Standard for community engagement and the UPM Share and 
Care Program
• UPM Sustainable Supply Chain Program, Refer to » G1-2 Sustainable 
Supply Chain Program
• UPM Requirements for wood suppliers
• UPM Forest Action Program
 
The policy documents cover communities in UPM's area of influence and/
or communities in suppliers’ area of influence. There is a special focus on 
communities with potential impacts from forest management and 
harvesting via UPM's requirements for wood suppliers and the UPM 
Forest Action Program.
Human rights in the affected communities
UPM is committed to respecting human rights in line with the United 
Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. UPM 
respects the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO 
Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and the 
OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. UPM also promotes the 
human-rights-related principles of the UN Global Compact. UPM expects 
a similar commitment from its suppliers, third parties, and joint venture 
partners, as set out in the UPM Supplier and Third-Party Code.
The UPM Code of Conduct, the UPM Sustainability Policy Statement, 
and the UPM Supplier and Third-Party Code are aligned with these 
internationally recognized standards.
UPM's Sustainability Policy Statement specifies topics such as land 
use and engagement with communities, as well as grievance 
mechanisms, incident handling and remediation:
• UPM recognizes the importance of responsible land tenure and respect 
for land rights. UPM is committed to ensuring that the land tenure and 
resource rights of individuals and communities, including indigenous 
people, are respected and promoted. UPM adheres to the community 
engagement practices embedded in forest certification requirements, 
including Free, Prior, and Informed Consent (FPIC), where applicable. 
• UPM has a zero-tolerance approach to land grabbing and maintains a 
respectful and mutually beneficial relationship with local communities 
in UPM's area of influence.
• UPM recognizes the importance of dialogue and open communication 
channels with internal and external stakeholders who are or may be 
affected by UPM's actions. UPM acknowledges the need for a clear and 
consistent approach to local community consultation and social 
monitoring. UPM pays particular attention to individuals or groups who 
may be at greater risk of negative human rights impacts due to their 
vulnerability or marginalization, such as women, young workers, 
migrant workers, and indigenous peoples.
• UPM monitors and works to remediate negative human rights impacts 
of which it is aware of, and which its activities have caused or 
contributed to. Access to UPM's Report Misconduct channel is ensured 
for all stakeholders.  
In 2025, no severe human rights incidents were reported in connection 
with affected communities where UPM's activities would have caused or 
contributed to the harm. 
UPM Financial Report 2025 231
UPM Annual Report 2025230 231
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Processes
Processes for engaging with affected 
communities about impacts 
S3-2
UPM engages with a wide range of stakeholders, including customers, 
investors, employees, suppliers, authorities, NGOs, and local 
communities. Each group has different needs and expectations, which 
UPM takes into account depending on the business focus, region, and 
individual context. The Executive Vice President (EVP) of UPM's 
Marketing, Sustainability and Communications function has operational 
responsibility for local engagement. The function coordinates stakeholder 
relations at Group level, while businesses are responsible for continuous 
dialogue with local communities. For example, the UPM Kaukas and UPM 
Kymi mills in Finland have their own local dialogue forums to engage 
directly with local stakeholders. In Uruguay, there is a specific team 
responsible for local community engagement. Engagement occurs 
directly with local people, and affected communities are consulted. 
Engagement takes the form of visiting communities, keeping them 
informed on potential impacts of UPM's operations, managing concerns 
and enquiries, and establishing projects with key stakeholders.
In general, stakeholder mapping, active dialogue, and systematic 
collection of feedback play an essential role in UPM's stakeholder 
relations work, and the company applies several measures and 
safeguards to identify and mitigate its environmental and social impacts 
on surrounding communities, including: 
• Environmental and social impact assessments
• Continuous human rights due diligence in UPM's own operations and 
supply chain
• Third-party certified management systems such as ISO 14001 
(Environmental management) and 45001 (Occupational Health and 
Safety management) for production units
• Sustainable forest management certification (FSC and/or PEFC) of 
UPM-owned forestry operations and suppliers
• Restructuring processes planned in cooperation with employees, their 
organizations, the local authorities and other relevant stakeholders.
UPM's processes vary due to different operational contexts and 
stakeholder expectations. UPM continued to review its processes and 
policies, and reporting practices in 2025 and introduced a new company 
standard for community engagement. Refer to » S3-4 Emphasis on local 
communities and impacts, Actions in 2025
UPM carefully analyzes stakeholder feedback to understand its 
stakeholders’ expectations and to take them into consideration in its 
development work and decision-making. UPM received approximately 
460 (350) inquiries or concerns from the general public in 2025.
UPM’s engagement with local communities is historically based on 
decades of close cooperation. Many communities have grown around 
UPM's operations over the years, especially in Finland, Germany, and 
Uruguay. In Uruguay, UPM gathers public opinion on its forestry 
operations, nurseries, and pulp mills through social monitoring surveys 
conducted by an external party.
All UPM-owned forests are certified or in the process of being certified 
if the site is new. In Finland, UPM-owned forests are certified by PEFC and 
FSC™ and in the U.S. (Minnesota) by the Sustainable Forestry Initiative 
(SFI), which is endorsed by PEFC. UPM's eucalyptus plantations in 
Uruguay are certified by both FSC and PEFC. Certification systems set 
internationally recognized standards for sustainable forest management, 
including clear principles and criteria relevant to communities and 
indigenous peoples.
In the U.S., UPM Blandin's landholdings in the state of Minnesota are 
situated on the traditional and ancestral lands of Indigenous Peoples. 
UPM acknowledges that the region holds significant cultural, historical, 
and personal significance for native peoples. Indigenous Peoples have 
been the traditional stewards of these lands, and the company recognizes 
the value of that stewardship.
 UPM Blandin recognizes the legal, customary, and traditional rights of 
Indigenous Peoples, and fully respects them. These rights are protected 
by laws, treaties, and international declarations. UPM Blandin strives to 
balance forest management objectives with the rights of Indigenous 
Peoples, the preservation of cultural heritage, and traditional ecological 
knowledge. Continual improvement in these areas is essential, and UPM 
Blandin is committed to improving employee knowledge, outreach, and 
cooperation. 
Processes for raising and handling 
concerns
S3-3
 
UPM monitors and works to remediate negative human rights impacts of 
which it becomes aware, and which the company's activities have 
contributed to or caused. Remediation is specified case by case, based 
on verified impacts.
UPM has established channels for reporting misconduct; reports of 
misconduct are carefully reviewed, personal data is handled appropriately, 
protection against retaliation is ensured, and all reports are treated in strict 
confidence. Investigations are conducted by designated people  with the 
necessary competences. If a report is substantiated, appropriate 
disciplinary and/or legal action is taken, and lessons are learned. Refer to 
» G1-1 Reporting and identifying concerns
All members of affected communities can report concerns 
anonymously online via the UPM Report Misconduct channel SpeakUp®, 
Refer to » G1-1 Reporting and identifying concerns
In addition, local stakeholders can report their concerns directly to 
UPM representatives at the mills and other sites and through locally 
provided channels such as email and telephone. Typical concerns relate 
to odors, traffic, and noise, and all grievances are followed up as part of 
UPM's management systems. Feedback and concerns are handled in 
accordance with the PEFC and/or FSC chain-of-custody requirements, 
forest certification standards, ISO 14001 environmental management 
systems, and other standards as relevant. Stakeholders are informed of 
UPM Financial Report 2025 232
the actions taken by UPM in response to their feedback. Refer to » S2-3 
Processes for raising and handling concerns
The UPM Report Misconduct channel is available on UPM's webpage and 
promoted in the value chain via UPM's Supplier and Third-Party Code 
and in contractors' safety induction, for example.
UPM evaluates the awareness and trust of affected communities in 
connection with the ISO management systems and processes through 
stakeholder surveys and feedback mechanisms. For example, regular 
social monitoring surveys at UPM's forestry operations and nurseries in 
Uruguay are conducted by an external service provider by interviewing 
affected community members and contractor employees.
UPM business areas are responsible for assessing the awareness and 
trust of their local communities on their mill sites and in forestry 
operations, respectively. They evaluate the awareness and trust of their 
local communities through forest certification systems, regular feedback 
gatherings, and community meetings, and mill/unit open days ensuring 
that local communities are informed about how to raise their concerns or 
needs and trust that they will be addressed effectively.
UPM is committed to fostering open communication and ensuring the 
protection of individuals who raise concerns about its operations. To 
support this, local community members can report concerns 
anonymously online via the UPM Report Misconduct channel. By 
providing this secure and anonymous channel, UPM aims to encourage 
transparency and trust, ensuring that all grievances are addressed 
promptly and effectively. The effectiveness of the company's grievance 
channels is assessed in connection with UPM's compliance program.
Actions
S3-4
UPM's identified material topics have been defined as a result of a double 
materiality assessment including UPM's Corporate Human Rights 
Saliency Assessment, which considers impacts, risks, and opportunities 
related to affected communities. The following UPM focus areas are 
relevant for communities:
• Local engagement (with targets on quality of community relationships 
and long-term initiatives with positive impact communities)
• Sustainable forestry (with a target for certified fibre share)
• Responsible sourcing (with a target on spend covered by UPM Supplier 
and Third-Party Code), Refer to » G1-2 Sustainable Supply Chain 
Program
Action plans have been established to achieve the Group-level targets, as 
well as other relevant areas for continuous improvement. The key actions, 
previous year's key actions, planned key actions, and overarching 
concepts are presented below.
UPM monitors the effectiveness of its actions to manage material 
impacts by tracking and reporting on the progress of its sustainability 
targets for 2030. Refer to » S3-5 Targets. Furthermore, UPM reviews the 
effectiveness of its risk management procedures quarterly through its 
Compliance system. Refer to » G1-3 UPM compliance system
Emphasis on local communities and 
impacts
Key actions
UPM aims to be a good neighbor and trusted partner to all people, 
economies, and environments affected, both directly and indirectly. For 
UPM's businesses and forestry operations, this means active 
engagement and dialogue with local communities. This includes 
assessment of social and human rights impacts, as well as collaboration 
forums, cooperation with local schools and education networks, and 
dialogue with local forest owners and neighbors of harvesting sites, and 
other individuals impacted by forest management. 
UPM mills in Europe, the U.S., and Uruguay have the potential to create 
significant societal impact through employment and tax generation in the 
locations where they operate. UPM's EMAS (EU Eco-Management and 
Audit Scheme) statements publicly disclose societal impacts in addition to 
environmental performance, providing detailed information about the local 
impacts of UPM's pulp and paper mills. For the supply chain, UPM's 
Sustainable Supply Chain Program and Forest Action Program cover 
aspects such as local engagement or social contribution.
Actions in 2025
• The findings of the Uruguay Human Rights Impact Assessment were 
addressed by reviewing current Group-wide practices for community 
engagement. In addition, UPM continued efforts to increase internal 
understanding on business and human rights. UPM also participated 
in the UN Global Compact’s Business and Human Rights Accelerator 
program and conducted internal human rights workshops  covering 
specific high-risk contexts.
• A new company-wide standard for community engagement was 
established. The standard defines guidelines for community engagement, 
including local dialogue, issues management, and contribution to local 
community development. The standard applies to UPM production sites 
and forest units that are identified, based on social or environmental 
impacts, as high-impact sites according to the criteria defined in the 
standard. These sites shall develop and implement stakeholder 
engagement plans that are appropriate for their operations. Other sites 
are encouraged to develop such processes where relevant.   
• Collaboration with local Indigenous communities in the U.S. continued 
to improve understanding of their forest management practices and 
perspectives, and to balance UPM Blandin’s forest management 
objectives with Indigenous People’s needs. This engagement primarily 
took place through multi-stakeholder groups with Indigenous 
representation, focusing on natural resources and forestry. 
• Targets set under the Forest Action Program were successfully 
implemented across UPM’s wood production areas in Finland, 
Uruguay, and the U.S. Positive impact on local communities was 
observed through key performance indicators.
Planned actions
• Implementing the new standard and related actions for community 
engagement, including training and capacity building, to strengthen 
UPM's relationships with its local communities, gain insight into their 
needs, and track the progress of its engagement activities.
UPM Financial Report 2025 233
UPM Annual Report 2025232 233
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

• The social monitoring survey on plantation forestry in Uruguay, 
conducted every three years, will take place. Additionally, a survey of 
the UPM Foundation's activities will be conducted to evaluate its 
impact on education in interior regions of Uruguay, and to explore 
public awareness and perceptions of the Foundation.
• UPM Blandin will assess potential impact on Indigenous Peoples 
across its operational region and explore ways to strengthen 
relationship building, coordination, and communication. 
• The key performance indicators under the Forest Action program will 
be further refined, and the positive impact on local communities will 
continue to be monitored. 
UPM Share and Care Program
Key actions
UPM's Share and Care Program focuses on delivering positive impacts 
for communities through various initiatives. The program demonstrates 
UPM's dedication to sustainability and local community involvement 
through local support initiatives, donations, and employee voluntary work. 
UPM is also committed to supporting humanitarian organizations in 
various crisis situations, focusing on children and families, who are often 
the most vulnerable.
Actions in 2025
• A new standard for community engagement was established, including 
the UPM Share and Care Program. This standard includes rules for 
company charitable donations, support for local initiatives, and 
employee volunteering.
• The focus areas of the UPM Share and Care Program were reviewed 
and updated. Support focuses on youth, education, and science-based 
climate and biodiversity actions, with approximately 44% of donations 
directed to youth-related initiatives, 30% to education, and 26% to 
climate and biodiversity, primarily in UPM’s main operating countries 
Finland, Germany, Uruguay, China, Poland, and the U.S.  
• Donations totaling approximately €1,100,000 (€920,000) were made 
to 31 charities and other non-profit organizations, including the 
University of Helsinki, UNICEF Finland, the Children and Youth 
Foundation, Stiftung Lesen, and Redoblando Esfuerzos Asociación 
Civil. These contributions supported initiatives in UPM's main operating 
countries, as well as global humanitarian aid efforts.  
• Support for local initiatives through the Share and Care Program 
reached around €610,000.00 (€800,000). The support focused on 
local children and youth events, education, cultural and sports 
activities, and environmental and well-being initiatives. 
• Employee volunteering involved approximately 300 UPM employees 
across the countries where the company operates. Activities included 
environmental education for children, environmental clean-ups, and 
caring for local community members in need. 
• The UPM Foundation in Uruguay continued to support initiatives 
promoting education and entrepreneurship in rural areas.
Planned actions
• Implement the new standard and associate process developments and 
actions. This includes internal training and capacity building for local 
community engagement and the company rules concerning 
donations, support to local initiatives, and employee volunteering.  
• Review of existing targets and impact measurement metrics for the 
Share and Care Program 
• Continue supporting and engaging with the communities where UPM 
operates, in alignment with the UPM Share and Care Program. 
Incidents and remediation
In 2025, no severe human rights incidents caused or contributed to by 
UPM's activities were reported in connection with affected communities. 
Refer to » S3-1 Human rights in the affected communities
UPM monitors and works to remedy adverse human rights impacts of 
which it is aware, and which its activities have caused or contributed to. 
Remediation is specified case by case, based on verified impacts. The 
UPM compliance system covers remediation and ensures the adequacy 
of the process.
Resources
In general, activities related to affected communities are included in 
UPM's investment and resource planning.
UPM Financial Report 2025 234
Targets
S3-5
Targets related to local communities
To manage its sustainability activities, UPM has set several targets and 
key performance indicators for its sustainability focus areas covering the 
supply chain (forestry, responsible sourcing) and UPM's own operations 
(community involvement). UPM's sustainability targets are developed 
internally by UPM by taking the views, wishes, and perspectives of external 
stakeholders from UPM's constant multi-stakeholder dialogue into 
account. Local communities are engaged via local practices. The targets 
are approved by the GET. Refer to » ESRS 2 GOV-1 Oversight and 
management of impacts, risks and opportunities
Sustainability focus area and key performance indicator Base year
Base 
year value 2030 target
Target follow-up
2025 (2024)
Community involvement
Assessment of quality of community relationships and 
define actions at relevant sites
Since 2021 - Continuous A new company-wide standard for community 
engagement established introducing guidelines for 
unit specific assessment of community relationships. 
Implementation and communications will continue in 
2026.
Long-term initiative(s) that impact their mill communities 
defined in line with the Share and Care Program
Since 2021 - All 
businesses 
(continuous)
Supported local initiatives focusing on youth, 
education, and climate and biodiversity primarily in 
UPM's main operating countries. Support for global 
humanitarian and child welfare organizations 
continued, especially for children and families 
impacted by conflicts.   
Forestry
Share of certified fibre * 2015 84%  100 % 90% (88.5%)
Responsible sourcing
UPM total spend covered by UPM Supplier and Third-Party 
Code
2015 79% >80% 
(continuous)
86% (91%)
*Forest management certification
UPM's process of setting its sustainability targets is based on an annually 
updated double materiality assessment, which includes the interests and 
concerns of various stakeholders. Refer to » ESRS 2 IRO-1 Materiality 
assessment process
UPM's sustainability targets are followed up at Group level at least 
annually.
UPM Financial Report 2025 235
UPM Annual Report 2025234 235
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Business conduct (ESRS G1)
Regardless of the location, circumstances or people involved, UPM is committed to complying with applicable 
laws and regulation and the UPM Code of Conduct.
Percentage of active employees* 
who completed the new UPM Code of 
Conduct training since Sept. 2025
In 2025, UPM updated its 
Code of Conduct in 
accordance with its three-
year update plan.                                        
Percentage of UPM's total 
spend covered by the UPM Supplier 
and Third-Party Code 
94% 86%
(Continuous target: 100%) 
 
(Continuous target: >80%)
*excluding the UPM Adhesive Materials 
company acquired in 2025
UPM Financial Report 2025 236
Policies
G1-1
UPM Code of Conduct
UPM's decision-making, management, and operations are guided by 
UPM's values and the UPM Code of Conduct. Compliance with the laws 
and responsible practices are the foundation of all UPM's operations and 
create long-term value for both UPM and its stakeholders. The UPM Code 
of Conduct underlines UPM's commitment to business integrity and 
responsible business operations and manifests the company's guiding 
principles. 
The Code addresses UPM's material impacts, risks, and opportunities. 
First, it includes UPM's commitment to integrity, which is seen as a 
general opportunity for success and growth: “Integrity is fundamental to  
our business operations and provides the foundation for our continued 
success and growth.” Furthermore, the Code opens up what to do, and 
how to behave to minimize the negative impacts and potential risks of 
UPM's material sustainability topics in its chapters on Respect people 
and human rights, Addressing environmental impact and sustainability of 
products, Zero tolerance for corruption and bribery, Know with whom you 
trade, and Engaging with stakeholders and society. The Code also 
focuses on governance-related topics such as Avoid conflicts of interest, 
Compliance with competition laws, and Protect assets and information. 
The last chapter, "Compliance involves everyone", includes multiple ways 
to raise concerns for both UPMers and other stakeholders. 
To ensure implementation of UPM's commitments, UPM has 
established a company-wide compliance system. Refer to » G1-3 UPM’s 
compliance system
The UPM Code of Conduct is approved by the Board of Directors, 
UPM's highest governance body. The Group Executive Team (GET), led by 
the President and CEO, is responsible for managing corporate 
responsibility, including implementation of the Code of Conduct. The 
document is shared internally via the intranet and supporting printed 
materials. It is available for external stakeholders on the UPM webpage.
The Code is complemented by more detailed policy statements, 
policies, and rules that are approved by the Board of Directors, the Group 
Executive Team, business areas, or global functions. These policy 
statements, policies, and rules cover areas such as treasury, taxes, 
disclosures, insider matters, anti-corruption, competition law, 
confidentiality, human resources, sustainability, forestry, digital safety, 
environment, safety, international sanctions, and business partner risk 
management. 
The UPM Code of Conduct was last updated in 2025 to reflect 
changes in regulations and the business environment. The updates 
embed UPM’s new safety vision and include refinements in several 
sections to reflect ongoing regulatory developments on addressing and 
reporting human rights and environmental impacts in UPM's own 
operations and value chains. The section on cybersecurity and data 
protection has also been further clarified.
 
UPM Supplier and Third-Party Code
UPM expects its suppliers and third-party intermediaries (e.g. agents, 
advisers, representatives, joint ventures, joint venture partners, local 
partners, and distributors) to apply the same principles as in the UPM 
Code of Conduct and to meet social and environmental responsibility 
criteria. These requirements are defined in the UPM Supplier and Third-
Party Code, the latest update of which was adopted at the end of 2024. 
The practical guide, updated in 2025, summarizes the framework of the 
Code and UPM's position and provides examples and good practices for 
implementation. In 2025, the updated Code, the practical guide, and 
training for UPM's personnel became available to cover UPM's broad 
supplier base. 
UPM Sustainability Policy Statement
The Sustainability Policy Statement complements the UPM Code of 
Conduct, with a particular focus on the chapters Respect people and 
human rights, Addressing environmental impact and sustainability of 
products, and Engaging with stakeholders and society. The purpose of the 
Policy Statement is to describe UPM's responsible business conduct 
regarding the above issues in more detail, and to define principles and 
commitments such as: 
• UPM is committed to contribute to science-based climate targets in 
line with the 1.5 °C pathway; 
• ISO 14001 environmental management system certification is required 
for all UPM production sites;
• All UPM-owned forests and plantations are 100% certified or will be 
certified if the site is new.
The Policy Statement applies to all activities of UPM. The management of 
each business and function is responsible for ensuring that these 
principles and commitments are complied with. It is developed taking the 
views and perspectives of external stakeholders based on UPM's constant 
multi-stakeholder dialogue into account. 
The Policy Statement was approved by the Group Executive Team at 
the end of 2024. In 2025, the Statement was introduced to the business 
areas and functions of UPM, which are responsible for the 
implementation and training.
UPM's values
UPM is determined to be a responsible and attractive employer now and 
in the future. UPM wants to strengthen its employees’ sense of belonging 
and the feeling that their work is meaningful. This promotes productivity, 
engagement, and well-being. UPM's values – Trust and be trusted, Achieve 
together, and Renew with courage – guide the way.  Refer to » S1-4 on 
actions to establish, develop and promote UPM's values. Progress is 
regularly measured through the annual Employee Engagement Survey 
(EES), which started in 2007 and invites all employees to evaluate different 
aspects of their work.
UPM FINANCIAL REPORT 2024 128
UPM Annual Report 2025236 237
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Reporting and identifying concerns
At UPM, all employees share responsibility for maintaining integrity and 
ethical standards. If misconduct is suspected, everyone is obligated to 
speak up and report it and to listen to the concerns of others. Practices 
aimed at preventing reporting are prohibited and are in themselves 
considered misconduct. UPM employees are encouraged to report their 
concerns to their manager, UPM Legal and Compliance, UPM HR, UPM 
Internal Audit, or to use the UPM Report Misconduct channel.
Stakeholders play a crucial role in maintaining UPM's standards of 
integrity. One of the most important ways to contribute is to report any 
suspected or observed unethical behavior. Speaking up enables UPM to 
address and correct issues in a timely manner and to prevent them from 
recurring in the same place or elsewhere in the organization. It also 
contributes to a culture in which people feel comfortable speaking up, are 
trusted, and treated fairly.
External stakeholders are encouraged to make a report to their UPM 
contact person, the UPM Report Misconduct channel, or local contact 
points. External stakeholders include employees and representatives of 
UPM's business partners and their suppliers and sub-suppliers, people in 
the affected local communities, and job applicants. 
The platform for the UPM Report Misconduct channel SpeakUp® is 
provided by an external service provider. It allows anyone to raise 
concerns confidentially and anonymously if they wish. Reports can be 
made in more than 40 languages, and concerns can also be raised by 
telephone.
Concerns about unlawful behavior or behavior that conflicts with the 
UPM Code of Conduct or other company policies may also be identified 
based on UPM's compliance monitoring activities (e.g. reviews, audits, 
and counterparty screening procedures). 
Investigating concerns and incident handling 
UPM has established procedures to investigate business conduct 
incidents, including suspected corruption and bribery, in a timely, 
independent, and objective manner. 
UPM's Senior Vice President of Internal Audit (“SVP of Internal Audit”) 
and the Chief Compliance Officer ensure that all cases reported through 
the UPM Report Misconduct channel are properly investigated and 
documented. The SVP of Internal Audit is responsible for the UPM Report 
Misconduct channel and its correct operation. Members of the Internal 
Audit Team and the Compliance Team, including the SVP of Internal 
Audit and the Chief Compliance Officer, as well as the appointed local 
person(s), are responsible for handling reports in accordance with the EU 
directive (EU) 2019/1937 (EU Whistleblowing Directive) as implemented at 
national level. The responsibility for handling each report is determined on 
a case-by-case basis by the SVP of Internal Audit and the Chief 
Compliance Officer. The people handling the reports receive appropriate 
training.
The person(s) responsible for handling the reports take the necessary 
actions in response to the report, such as verifying the report’s validity, 
forwarding the case to a competent authority, conducting or overseeing 
the investigation, and informing the person who made the report of the 
action taken. 
All reports and related information are treated with strict 
confidentiality. No one will be considered liable for the alleged misconduct 
before a report has been thoroughly investigated. 
Protection against retaliation
The identity of the person who made the report and any person 
mentioned in the report is strictly confidential. During the investigation, 
the investigator(s) must protect the reputation of all parties involved 
(those reporting and those being reported) by restricting access to 
information related to the allegations and the investigation to those who 
have a legitimate need to know. 
UPM also has a strict policy of non-retaliation. UPM does not tolerate 
retaliation against anyone who in good faith reports suspected 
misconduct or participates in an investigation to resolve suspected 
misconduct. Retaliation or tolerating retaliation is in itself considered 
misconduct and must be reported promptly.
Among other things, UPM's Code of Conduct e-learning course, which 
is mandatory for all employees, covers how to raise concerns and UPM's 
non-retaliation policy. In addition, regular communication on the topic is 
provided to employees.
UPM is subject to legal requirements under national law transposing 
EU Whistleblowing Directive on the protection of persons who report 
breaches.
Training on business conduct policies
Policies and procedures are implemented through training and 
communication. 
Compliance training for specific 
target groups
Completion 
rates as of 
Dec 31, 2025
Size of target 
group
Code of Conduct e-learning  94% 14,200
Personal data protection e-learning  99% 6,300
Anti-Corruption e-learning  99% 6,300
Confidentiality e-learning  99% 6,300
Competition law e-learning  99% 2,800
Insider Policy e-learning  99% 140
Association participation e-learning  100% 1,000
Cybersecurity e-learning  97% 6,300
UPM's e-learning modules are available on a global UPM e-learning 
platform and are easily accessible to all employees. Completion of 
mandatory e-learning courses is a prerequisite for short-term incentive 
payments. The e-learning courses are valid for three years, except for 
cybersecurity, which is valid for one year.
UPM has a Group-level target of 100% participation in training on the 
UPM Code of Conduct. Since September 2025 and by the end of 2025, 
94% (99%) of the active employees completed the new Code of Conduct 
training, excluding the UPM Adhesive Materials company acquired in 
UPM Financial Report 2025 238
2025. UPM also offers compliance e-learning courses to employees of 
business partners working for UPM. This ensures that they are committed 
to the same standards of integrity. 
UPM complements the e-learning modules with in-person and virtual 
compliance training for specific target groups. The target groups are 
determined based on risk assessments. Compliance training is 
complemented by regular communication activities to maintain 
awareness among employees. 
UPM has identified its salaried employees as the most exposed to 
corruption and bribery, as they have financial and other decision-making 
power that can make them more susceptible to corruption and bribery 
compared to shop floor employees. Anti-corruption training is provided to 
all salaried employees. 
Responsible sourcing
G1-2
Suppliers are an essential part of UPM's value chain. UPM buys products, 
materials, and services from around  17,000 B2B suppliers globally. The 
sourcing network includes suppliers from startup companies to 
international corporations. The company also buys wood from around  
13,000 private forest owners. 
The main sourcing categories are fibre, chemicals, other raw materials, 
logistics, energy, and indirect purchases such as services. When selecting 
suppliers, UPM's most important priorities include reliable long-term 
deliveries, cost-competitiveness, product and service quality, suppliers' 
financial stability, social and environmental responsibility, product safety, 
and the product's carbon footprint. 
Suppliers also play an important role in UPM's business-specific 
growth projects. Supplier management, with the required competencies 
and digitalization, boosts product development and the 
commercialization of new products.
UPM's responsible sourcing targets for 2030 
Responsible sourcing has been identified as one of UPM's focus areas. 
The following targets for 2030 have been defined and are followed  
regularly. These targets support UPM's policy objective for responsible 
sourcing practices (UPM Code of Conduct). UPM's sustainability targets 
are developed by UPM by taking the views, wishes, and perspectives of 
external stakeholders from UPM's constant multi-stakeholder dialogue 
into account.
Sustainability focus area and key performance indicator Base year
Base year 
value
2030 
target
Target follow-up 
2025 (2024)
Responsible sourcing
UPM total spend covered by UPM Supplier and Third-Party Code 2015 79% >80% 
(continuous)
86% (91%)
Strategic, critical and high sustainability risk supplier spend covered by an EcoVadis 
assessment indicating low sustainability risk
2024 86% 100% 89% (86%)
CO2 emissions from materials and logistics (Scope 3) 2018 6.08 mt 
CO2eq
-30% -22% (-22%)
UPM Group-level disclosure of 2030 sourcing-related targets is aligned 
with UPM’s Sustainable Supply Chain Program. 
UPM has identified 183 significant tier 1 suppliers, which are comprised 
of  strategic, critical, and high sustainability risk suppliers. These correlate 
to an approximate spend of €1.7 billion.
In 2025, UPM focused on managing the corporate responsibility 
performance of the significant suppliers to achieve the risk mitigation 
target. The 2024 target baseline was calculated as having 86% (by spend) 
of significant suppliers with an overall EcoVadis score indicating a low 
sustainability risk. In 2025, suppliers that did not meet the required 
performance level were actively engaged in sustainability assessments 
and improvements. At the end of 2025, 89% of significant suppliers by 
spend had a score indicating a low sustainability risk. 
The progress of the other Group-level targets for sourcing is in line with 
the planned development. 
Refer to » E1-4 for details on the CO2 target for Scope 3
Contractual payment terms
Refer to » G1-6 Payment practices  
UPM Financial Report 2025 239
UPM Annual Report 2025238 239
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Sustainable Supply Chain Program 
UPM's responsible sourcing practices and priorities are formulated in the 
cohesive, overarching Sustainable Supply Chain Program. Each element 
contains clear instructions regarding the relevant sourcing and supply 
chain management practices and impacts at UPM, as well as tangible 
guidelines, requirements, and expectations for UPM's suppliers. Effective 
implementation is managed and tracked through UPM's 2030 
sustainability targets, performance indicators, and capacity building 
programs. 
Risk mitigation
UPM identifies suppliers with the greatest business relevance and supply 
chains with a high risk of potential negative environmental and social 
impacts. Risk management contingency plans have been created for 
identified high sustainability risk suppliers. The evaluation is based on the 
country of origin, the sourced material or service, and the UPM supply 
chain ESG risk register, which includes country-, commodity-, and sector-
specific sustainability risk insights. The UPM Sourcing Risk Management 
Steering Group evaluates the development of all sourcing and supply 
chain risks and oversees the implementation of risk management 
strategies and actions  
EcoVadis and other assessments, supplier audits and reviews, and 
joint development plans are used to conduct more detailed evaluations of 
suppliers' activities. All suppliers are regularly screened using a 
counterparty risk management tool. 
If non-conformities are identified, the supplier is required to take 
corrective measures. UPM monitors the implementation of these 
measures and provides support to improve the suppliers' operations if 
necessary. Some contracts may have to be terminated due to insufficient 
measures or the seriousness of UPM's findings. 
Supplier audits and reviews 
Supplier audits and reviews are defined based on, but not limited to, 
identified risks related to social and environmental topics, including 
human rights. 
In 2025, UPM carried out 80 (97) supplier audits and reviews globally. 
56 (62) were conducted by UPM's own trained auditors and 24 (35) were 
carried out by external auditors from independent accredited auditing 
bodies. 347 (376) sustainability-related findings were identified in these 
audits. In 2025, none of the findings were considered critical with regard to 
actual or potential significant environmental or social impacts. All 
findings are followed up with corrective potential further audits in close 
collaboration with the suppliers. 
In addition, about 2,000 (3,200) contractor reviews focusing on 
working conditions were carried out in Uruguay. UPM has a 
comprehensive contractor assurance system in Uruguay. Assurance 
consists of compliance reviews covering labor and other document 
audits and field audits focusing on security, safety, and working 
standards. The information gathered in field audits is cross-examined 
against the pre-existing data. 
UPM Financial Report 2025 240
A total of 715 (621) of UPM's suppliers completed and have valid 
sustainability assessments through EcoVadis in 2025. The results of the 
assessment show that 97% (95%) of UPM's suppliers assessed with 
EcoVadis have a low sustainability risk by supplier count. All suppliers that 
do not meet the low sustainability risk requirements are supported in 
developing their practices. Suppliers and UPM are able to monitor and 
benchmark suppliers' sustainability performance against industry 
averages through EcoVadis.
Supplier compliance 
UPM is committed to responsible sourcing practices in accordance with 
the UPM Code of Conduct. The minimum requirements for suppliers are 
defined in the UPM Supplier and Third-Party Code. UPM requires its 
suppliers to ensure that their own suppliers and contractors, who provide 
products or services related to the agreement between the supplier and 
UPM, comply with the UPM Supplier and Third-Party Code or similar 
standards. In 2025, 86% (91%) of UPM's total spend was with suppliers 
who are committed to the Supplier and Third-Party Code. 
Additional category-specific requirements apply to wood, chemicals, 
pulp, packaging materials, and logistics, for example. The requirements 
cover environmental performance, social responsibility, and reporting. 
Contractors working on UPM's production sites must comply with UPM's 
safety requirements.
UPM seizes sustainability-related opportunities to create business 
value through supplier development and collaboration. UPM actively 
participates in various development and innovation projects with 
suppliers and joins different sustainability initiatives when feasible.  
Sourcing objectives focus on selected environmental, social, and 
governance issues (illustrated on the previous page). 
In 2025, UPM continued to work closely with Together for Sustainability 
(TfS) on supply chain compliance and sustainability topics.
-30 by 30 Program for CO2 reduction
The Group-wide -30 by 30 Program to reduce CO2 emissions in the 
supply chain focuses on cooperation in climate actions. Refer to » E1-3 
Responsible sourcing: UPM's -30 by 30 Program, for more information 
Communication and training
UPM offers capacity building sessions on its supply chain compliance 
and sustainability topics to its employees and suppliers. Throughout 
2025, various internal trainings and awareness sessions on supplier 
engagement and status were held. Training for internal stakeholders 
regarding the updated UPM Supplier and Third-Party Code was 
organized in 2025. A total of 597 UPMers completed the internal training 
on the UPM Supplier and Third-Party Code, while the UPM Supplier and 
Third-Party Code training for external stakeholders was developed and 
launched in 2025. 
So far, 248 UPM employees completed e-learning training on the 
Sustainable Supply Chain Program since the launch. Individual supplier 
meetings were held during the year to support and raise awareness of the 
program's expectations and means of collaboration with suppliers. For 
2026, both internal and external capacity building sessions will continue 
with an increased focus on external stakeholder engagement. 
In connection with the -30 by 30 Program for CO2 emission reduction 
in the supply chain, UPM provides capacity building programs for its 
employees and suppliers. Supplier meetings were held to ensure 
awareness of climate actions related to UPM's Scope 3 CO2 emissions, 
support on product carbon footprint calculation methodology, and 
collaboration on decarbonization. Internal trainings on supply chain 
decarbonization, e.g. on the –30 by 30 Program and the calculation of a 
product carbon footprint, were provided via an e-learning solution and 
were completed by 110 employees so far.
UPM Financial Report 2025 241
UPM Annual Report 2025240 241
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Anti-corruption and anti-bribery
G1-3
Covered by the UPM Compliance System
The UPM Code of Conduct underlines the company's zero-tolerance 
attitude towards corruption and bribery in any form. UPM's Anti-
Corruption Rules, with the latest update in 2024, explain in more detail 
what prohibited conduct is, and what ethical behavior is expected.
UPM strives to ensure compliance with its Code of Conduct, policies, 
and rules by implementing a company-wide compliance program, 
including anti-corruption and anti-bribery, through the UPM compliance 
system. The compliance system is embedded in UPM's governance 
model and is designed to enhance company performance and a culture 
of integrity at all levels.
Risk assessments
UPM regularly performs anti-corruption risk assessments. The 2025 
compliance risk-assessment process included a top-down risk discussion 
(including corruption) with the management of each business area. All 
UPM entities were also assessed based on country risk and the 
complexity of operations. UPM operates globally and has significant 
manufacturing operations in several countries in emerging markets. Such 
operations require several permits and other licenses from the relevant 
authorities. Some of the countries where UPM operates (such as Mexico, 
UPM Financial Report 2025 242
Türkiye, Indonesia, Thailand, Argentina, India, South Africa, and Vietnam) 
are perceived as highly corrupt or corrupt according to Transparency 
International. In these countries, there is an increased risk of corruption in 
relation to interaction with government officials and in the use of 
intermediaries when applying for permits and licenses requiring 
governmental approval, for example. 
The due diligence of suppliers and third parties with whom UPM does 
business is an essential part of UPM's anti-corruption compliance 
program. UPM requires that due diligence is performed before entering or 
renewing any contract with a third party that meets specified criteria. UPM 
requires anti-bribery contract terms to be included in agreements with 
such third parties outlining the third-party's commitment to compliance 
with applicable anti-bribery laws and UPM's right to audit the third party 
to verify compliance with these terms. UPM also has corresponding due 
diligence procedures for joint ventures, mergers, and acquisitions.
Monitoring
UPM aims to ensure compliance at all levels of the organization through 
monitoring. Monitoring activities are based on a Group company risk 
matrix which takes the country risk and complexity and scope of UPM's 
operations in each country into account. UPM's Compliance Team has a 
three-year monitoring plan for its unit-specific compliance reviews that 
are based on this matrix. In addition to these general reviews, which cover 
all business integrity issues, risk-based reviews are conducted on specific 
issues such as anti-corruption. 
The key findings and recommendations of the compliance reviews 
are reported to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors and to 
businesses. These recommendations are then implemented in 
collaboration with the businesses concerned. Another example of UPM's 
monitoring activities is the counterparty screening procedures, which also 
cover anti-corruption and anti-bribery.
UPM Financial Report 2025 243
UPM Annual Report 2025242 243
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Investigation
Allegations or incidents of corruption and bribery can be reported by 
employees or external stakeholders through the UPM Report Misconduct 
channel. Such allegations or incidents are investigated in accordance 
with the UPM Misconduct Investigation Protocol and the UPM 
Misconduct Investigation Procedure. Refer to » G1-1
Investigation of allegations or incidents of corruption and bribery are 
carried out under the supervision of UPM's Internal Audit or UPM Legal 
and Compliance by parties separate from the management chain 
involved in the matter.
The Chief Compliance Officer and SVP of Internal Audit provide 
reports on the outcome of the investigations to the Ethics Advisory 
Committee and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors on a 
quarterly basis.
Communication and training
Anti-corruption is one of the topics in the UPM Code of Conduct. The 
Code is distributed to all employees. In addition, UPM has more detailed 
internal rules on anti-bribery and anti-corruption. Policies and procedures 
are implemented through training and communication.
By the end of 2025, 94% of active UPM employees, excluding the UPM 
Adhesive Materials company acquired in 2025, completed the new Code 
of Conduct training, including anti-corruption. The training started in 
September 2025. Refer to » G1-1, table
In addition, all salaried employees must complete UPM's anti-
corruption e-learning course, which includes a commitment to comply 
with UPM's Anti-Corruption Rules. UPM has identified its salaried 
employees as the most at risk of corruption and bribery as they have 
financial and other decision-making power that can make them more 
susceptible to corruption and bribery compared to shopfloor employees. 
The completion rate of the UPM Anti-Corruption e-learning course, last 
renewed in 2024, was 99% at the end of 2025. Refer to » G1-1, table.
UPM complements the e-learning modules with in-person and virtual 
compliance training for specific target groups. The target groups are 
determined based on risk assessments. In 2025, the company organized 
tailored anti-corruption training for selected target groups across the 
company.  
Compliance training is complemented by regular communication 
activities to maintain awareness among all employees.
Members of the Board of Directors and Group Executive Team are 
included in the target groups for the anti-corruption training described 
above. In addition, each new member of the Board of Directors receives 
training on the company's Code of Conduct and other Group policies, 
including anti-corruption, as part of their onboarding program. 
UPM has built a platform to provide training to employees of business 
partners working for UPM. This ensures that they are committed to the 
same standards of integrity.
The UPM Supplier and Third-Party Code was revised in 2024. It is 
communicated to suppliers as part of the business contract. In 2025, 86% 
of UPM's supplier spend was covered by the Code. Suppliers represent the 
majority of relevant business partners regarding the UPM Supplier and 
Third-Party Code. Refer to » G1-2 Responsible sourcing
Metrics
G1-4
Incidents of corruption or bribery
2025 2024
Number of convictions 0 0
Amount of fines (€) 0 0
In response to violations of UPM's anti-corruption policies and 
procedures, UPM conducted investigations and monitoring activities and 
took action to improve its control environment. Disciplinary measures 
were taken against the employees concerned, and training was provided 
to identified risk groups.
In 2025, 4 cases of alleged violations of UPM's anti-corruption policies 
and procedures, including those related to gifts and hospitality, were 
investigated. In 1 case, violations of UPM's policies were substantiated, 
and the concerned employee was disciplined. 2 cases were 
unsubstantiated and for 1 case the investigation was still ongoing at the 
end of 2025.
There were no confirmed cases of contracts with business partners 
being terminated or not renewed due to violations related to corruption or 
bribery in 2025.
No cases of corruption or bribery were brought against the company 
or its own employees during the reporting period.
G1-5
Political influence and lobbying activities
Through public affairs work, UPM aims to promote the prerequisites for its 
operations, particularly in its main operating countries Finland, Uruguay, 
Germany, and China. Active influencing at EU level is also important. 
Public affairs activities are based on UPM's strategy. They are also in 
line with the Paris Agreement. UPM also has topic-specific steering 
groups that guide public affairs activities, and the Group Executive Team 
regularly reviews these topics.
UPM cooperates with several trade associations, the most important 
being the Finnish Forest Industries Federation (FFIF) and the 
Confederation of European Paper Industries (Cepi). As UPM enters new 
industries, it is necessary to find new ways and forums for cooperation. 
For example, UPM is a member of the European Chemical Industry 
Council (CEFIC). UPM is also represented in the decision-making bodies 
of these trade associations, so that the company can influence and 
monitor their positions to ensure that they are in line with UPM's strategy. 
The basic requirement for membership of any trade association is the 
principal alignment with UPM's strategic positions. 
As UPM is an active participant in the energy market, both as an 
energy-intensive consumer and as an energy producer, UPM reminded 
decision-makers of the importance of functioning energy markets.
UPM Financial Report 2025 244
Climate change and UPM's commitment to the UN’s 1.5 °C agenda 
continued to be of great interest to stakeholders. Discussions were held 
with environmental organizations, certification bodies, authorities, and 
decision-makers. Forests' impact on climate is linked to policies on land 
use, land use change, and forestry (LULUCF). UPM highlighted the 
importance of sustainable forest management and wood-based 
products replacing fossils as effective ways to mitigate climate change.
In 2025, trade policy, especially changes to U.S. tariffs on imports, 
required active monitoring, assessment, and influencing. UPM strongly 
supports free trade and open markets, a position it has held for many 
years in several markets. 
UPM actively promotes the cost-competitive and consistent 
implementation of climate-related policies. UPM calls for predictable 
regulations that enable investment in the circular bioeconomy. EU 
policies must therefore ensure the sustainable use of forests and the 
availability of wood as a key resource for green growth.
UPM's main advocacy topics are publicly presented on UPM's website.
UPM's Public Affairs Team is led by the VP, Public Affairs, reporting to 
the EVP, Marketing, Sustainability and Communication, who is a member 
of the Group Executive Team. 
In accordance with the UPM Code of Conduct, UPM does not support 
political parties or individual candidates financially and in kind.
UPM is transparent in its dialogue and engagement with governments 
and regulators. UPM's identification number in the EU's Transparency 
Register is 861194311863-31. UPM is also registered in the German Lobby 
Register and, as of 2024, the new Finnish Transparency Register.
One Board member has held a position in public administration two 
years preceding his appointment to the Board of Directors, i.e. Mr Jari 
Gustafsson acted as the Finnish Ambassador for Greece and Albania 
until August 31,  2024. The President and CEO has not held position in 
public administration in the two years preceding his appointment to his 
current position.
G1-6
Payment practices
UPM follows the contractual payment terms as defined by either UPM or, 
in some cases, the supplier. UPM does not apply special procedures for 
SMEs. 
As standard, UPM aims to pay all supplier invoices by their due date. 
Payments are made according to the invoice due date and UPM's 
globally defined payment strategy. However, individual contracts, 
payment terms, and payment methods may vary between countries and 
businesses. 
In 2025, UPM paid its suppliers, on average, 43 days after the date 
when the payment term started to be calculated for invoices. 
On average, UPM applies payment terms of 14–60 days in its 
contracts with suppliers. Individual contracts and respective payment 
terms may vary between countries and businesses, reflecting the 
characteristics of the business. The invoice due date determines the 
payment date. UPM's global payment strategy and guidelines are applied 
in all UPM units. Based on the global UPM Source to Pay Business 
Process Model, payment terms are applied consistently across supplier 
categories and geographies, unless otherwise agreed upon in specific 
contractual arrangements. 
In 2025, on average, 76% of invoices received by UPM were aligned 
with the net payment terms of 60 days or less. 
UPM has not been party to legal proceedings due to late payments in 
2025.
UPM Financial Report 2025 245
UPM Annual Report 2025244 245
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Other sustainability standards and frameworks
IFRS S1 & S2
The ISSB (International Sustainability Standards Board) was established in 
2021 by the IFRS Foundation during the UN Climate Change Conference 
(COP26). The IFRS Foundation is a not-for-profit, public interest 
organization established to develop high-quality, understandable, 
enforceable, and globally accepted accounting and sustainability disclosure 
standards. The ISSB’s primary goal is to create a global baseline of 
sustainability disclosures that meet the needs of capital markets. 
In 2023, the ISSB published its first two sustainability disclosure 
standards: IFRS S1 (General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-
related Financial Information) and S2 (Climate-related Disclosures).
The ISSB and the European Commission services, together with 
EFRAG, have worked together during the development of the European 
Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS) and the IFRS Sustainability 
Disclosure Standards (ISSB Standards) to achieve a high degree of 
alignment of the respective standards, with a specific focus on 
climate-related reporting. A joint interoperability guidance was published 
in 2024, and builds the basis for UPM's alignment index of IFRS S1 and S2 
with UPM's ESRS disclosures. UPM has considered the disclosures of 
IFRS S1 and IFRS S2  to enhance interoperability and transparency. While 
the disclosures are aligned with many of the IFRS S1 and S2 requirements, 
UPM does not claim full compliance with these standards. In particular, 
quantitative disclosure of financial impacts, as required by IFRS S1 and 
S2, is not currently included.
See below for UPM's ISSB-ESRS Alignment Index.
General requirements Materiality IFRS S1.17-19 ESRS 2 SBM-2, SBM-3
Location of disclosures IFRS S1.60-63 Sustainability report within 
Management Report
Governance processes, controls and procedures an entity uses to 
monitor, manage and oversee sustainability-related risks and 
opportunities
IFRS S1.27(a)-(b) ESRS 2 GOV-1
Strategy for managing sustainability-related risks and 
opportunities
IFRS S1.29(a)-(e) ESRS 2 SBM-1, SBM-2, 
SBM-3
Material information about the sustainability-related risks and 
opportunities including Metrics and Targets
IFRS S1.30(a)-(c); IFRS 
S1.32(a)-(b); IFRS S1 45-53
Sustainability Statement as 
such
Financial position, financial performance and cash flows IFRS S1.34-40 ESRS IRO-1 Process in 
general, Climate-related 
risks
Risk Management IFRS S1.44(a)-(c) ESRS IRO-1  
IFRS S2 - Governance
Governance and 
management roles
Description of management bodies and individuals foreseeing 
climate related risks and opportunities
IFRS S2.6 (a) ESRS 2 GOV-1, GOV-2, 
GOV-3
Governance processes, 
controls and procedures
Management’s role in the governance processes, controls and 
procedures used to monitor, manage and oversee climate-
related risks and opportunities
IFRS S2.6 (b) ESRS 2 GOV-1 
Management's role in 
sustainability
IFRS S2 - Strategy
Climate-related risks and 
opportunities
Identified  material climate-related physical and transition risks 
and opportunities affecting UPM
IFRS S2.10 ESRS 2 SBM-3, E1 SBM-3
Business model and value 
chain
Current and anticipated effects of climate-related risks and 
opportunities
IFRS S2.13 ESRS 2 SBM-3, Board of 
Director's report Risk 
section
Strategy and 
decision-making
Information about how UPM has responded to, and plans to 
respond to, climate-related risks and opportunities in its strategy 
and decision-making
IFRS S2.14 (a) ESRS 2 SBM-3; ESRS 2 
IRO-1; ESRS E1-1; E1-2; E1-3
UPM's resourcing, and plans to resource, the activities disclosed IFRS S2.14 (b) ESRS E1-3
Progress of plans disclosed in previous reporting period IFRS S2.14 (c) ESRS E1-1; E1-3
IFRS S1 & S2 
requirements Topic
IFRS sustainability 
disclosure standard 
requirement
ESRS disclosure 
requirements
Additional 
notes
UPM Financial Report 2025 246
 
Financial position, 
financial performance and 
cash flows
The effects of climate-related risks and opportunities on UPM's 
financial performance
IFRS S2.15 ESRS 2 SBM-3
Information about effects on UPM's financial performance for the 
current and future reporting periods
IFRS S2.16 , IFRS S2.17 ESRS 2 SBM-3 See note below 
table
Climate resilience Results and implications of the climate resiliency assessment IFRS S2.22 (a) ESRS 2 SBM-3; ESRS E1-1
Information about how and when the climate-related scenario 
analysis was carried out including description of inputs and 
assumptions utilized in the assessment
IFRS S2.22 (b), IFRS S1.23; 
IFRS S1.B42 (c), IFRS S2.23
ESRS E1-1, ESRS 2 SBM-2; 
ESRS 2 IRO-1
IFRS S2 - Risk management
Management of 
climate-related risks
Processes and related policies the entity uses to identify, assess, 
prioritize and monitor climate-related risks and key assumptions
IFRS S2.25(a) ESRS 2 SBM-3; ESRS 2 
IRO-1; ESRS E1-1; E1-2; E1-7; 
E1-9
Management of climate-
related opportunities
Processes the entity uses to identify, assess, prioritize and 
monitor climate-related opportunities and key assumptions
IFRS S2.25 (b) ESRS 2 GOV-1; ESRS 2 
IRO-1; ESRS 2 SMB-3; ESRS 
E1-2, E1-9
Overall risk management Description of integration of climate-related risk and opportunity 
processes with overall risk management process
IFRS S2.25 (c) ESRS 2 IRO-1
IFRS S2 -  Metrics
Climate and GHG 
emission-related metrics
UPM's Scope 1, 2 and 3 related GHG emissions and description of 
the measurement approach
IFRS S2.29(a), IFRS S2.B30; 
IFRS S2.B31; IFRS S2.B56 
(a), (b), IFRS S2.B34
ESRS E1-1; E1-4; E1-6
Climate-related transition risks — the amount and percentage of 
assets or business activities vulnerable to climate-related 
transition risks
IFRS S2.29 (b) ESRS 2 SBM-3; ESRS E1-9 See note below 
table
Climate-related physical risks — the amount and percentage of 
assets or business activities vulnerable to climate-related 
physical risks;
IFRS S2.29 (c) ESRS 2 SBM-3; ESRS E1-9 See note below 
table
Climate-related opportunities—the amount and percentage of 
assets or business activities aligned with climate-related 
opportunities
IFRS S2.29 (d) ESRS 2 SBM-3; ESRS E1-9 See note below 
table
Capital deployment—the amount of capital expenditure, 
financing or investment deployed towards climate-related risks 
and opportunities
IFRS S2.29 (e) ESRS 2 SBM-3; ESRS E1-1 See note below 
table
Internal carbon pricing IFRS S2.29 (f) ESRS E1-8
Climate related considerations in executive remunerations IFRS S2.29 (g) ESRS 2 GOV-3
Information relevant to the cross-industry metric IFRS S2.31; IFRS S2.B65 (e); 
IFRS S1.21 (b), IFRS S1.50 
(c)
ESRS 2 SBM-3; ESRS E1-9 See note below 
table
IFRS S2 - Targets
Climate-related targets Description of quantitative and qualitative climate-related 
targets UPM has set to monitor progress towards achieving its 
strategic goals, law or regulation
IFRS S2.33, IFRS S2.B67 ESRS E1-4
Information about UPM's approach to setting and reviewing each 
target, and how UPM monitors progress against each target,
IFRS S2.34 ESRS E1-1; E1-4
Information about UPM performance against climate-related 
targets
IFRS S2.35 ESRS E1-1; E1-4
Information about scope of climate-related targets IFRS S2.36 (a), (b), (d) ESRS E1-1; E1-4
Information about use of carbon credits IFRS S2.36 (e) ESRS E1-7
IFRS S1 & S2 
requirements Topic
IFRS sustainability 
disclosure standard 
requirement
ESRS disclosure 
requirements
Additional 
notes
*Additional note: Information about financial effects omitted for fiscal year 2025 according to ESRS prolonged transitional provisions for disclosure requirements including phase-in options
UPM Financial Report 2025 247
UPM Annual Report 2025246 247
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

TCFD
UPM's climate-related disclosures according to TCFD (Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures) are presented in this Sustainability 
Statement as follows: 
 
Requirements Paragraphs in this sustainability statement
Governance
a) The role of the Board in overseeing climate-related issues ESRS 2 GOV-1 Management's role in sustainability
IRO-1 Materiality assessment process
b) The role of management in assessing and managing climate-related issues ESRS 2 GOV-1 Management's role in sustainability
ESRS 2 IRO-1 Materiality assessment process
Strategy
a) The climate-related risks and opportunities over the short, medium and long term ESRS 2 IRO-1 Materiality assessment process
ESRS 2 SBM-3 Impacts, risks and opportunities
E1-4 Targets
b) The impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on business, strategy and financial planning ESRS 2 IRO-1 Materiality assessment process
E1-1 Transition plan - Investments and funding
ESRS 2 SBM-3 Impacts, risks and opportunities
E1-4 Targets
c) The resilience of strategy, taking into consideration climate-related scenarios ESRS 2 SBM-3 Resilience of UPM's business model
E1-1  Transition plan
E1 SBM-3 Climate risks and business resilience
Risk management
a) Processes for identifying climate-related risks ESRS 2  IRO-1 Materiality assessment process - Climate-related 
risks
b) Processes for managing climate-related risks ESRS 2 GOV-1 Sustainability governance
E1-1 Transition plan
c) How processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate-related risks are integrated into 
overall risk management
ESRS 2 IRO-1 Materiality assessment - Process in general
Metrics and targets
a) Metrics used to assess climate-related risks and opportunities Metrics (E1-5 Energy consumption and mix, E1-6 GHG emissions, 
E1-7 Carbon removals and carbon credits, E1-8 Internal carbon 
pricing)
b) Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions, and related risks Emissions: E1-6 GHG emissions
Risks: ESRS 2 SBM-3 Impacts, risks and opportunities
c) Targets used to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against targets E1-4 Targets
UPM Financial Report 2025 248
TNFD
UPM's nature-related disclosures according to TNFD (Task Force on Nature-related Financial Disclosures) are presented in this Sustainability Statement 
as follows:
Requirements Paragraphs in this sustainability statement
Governance
a) The role of the Board in overseeing nature-related impacts, risks and opportunities ESRS 2 GOV-1 Management's role in sustainability
ESRS 2 IRO-1 Materiality assessment process
b) The role of management in assessing and managing nature-related dependencies, impacts, risks and 
opportunities
ESRS 2 GOV-1 Management's role in sustainability
ESRS 2 IRO-1 Materiality assessment process
c) Human rights policies and engagement activities, and oversight by the Board and management, with 
respect to Indigenous Peoples, Local Communities, affected and other stakeholders, in the organisation’s 
assessment of, and response to, nature-related dependencies, impacts, risks and opportunities.  
ESRS 2 GOV-1 Sustainability governance
ESRS 2 GOV-4 Sustainability Due Diligence
S1-1 UPM and human rights
Strategy
a) The nature-related dependencies, impacts, risks and opportunities over the short, medium and long 
term
ESRS 2 IRO-1 Materiality assessment process
E4 SBM-3 Impacts, risks and opportunities
b) The effect of nature-related dependencies, impacts, risks and opportunities on business model, value 
chain, strategy and financial planning, as well as on any transition plans or analysis in place
ESRS 2 IRO-1 Materiality assessment process
E4 SBM-3 Impacts, risks and opportunities
c) The resilience of strategy, taking into consideration nature-related scenarios ESRS 2 IRO-1 Materiality assessment process
E4 SBM-3 Impacts, risks and opportunities
E4-1 Transition plan
Risk management
a) Processes for identifying, assessing and prioritizing nature-related dependencies, impacts, risks and 
opportunities
ESRS 2 IRO-1 Materiality assessment process
E4 SBM-3 Impacts, risks and opportunities
b) Processes for monitoring nature-related dependencies, impacts, risks and opportunities ESRS 2 IRO-1 Materiality assessment process
E4 SBM-3 Impacts, risks and opportunities
c) How processes for identifying, assessing, prioritizing and monitoring nature-related risks are integrated 
into and inform the overall risk management process
ESRS 2 IRO-1 Materiality assessment process
E4 SBM-3 Impacts, risks and opportunities
Metrics and targets
a) Metrics used to assess and manage material nature-related risks and opportunities E4-5 Metrics
b) Positive impact on forest biodiversity and developing a monitoring system and obstacle-free streams, 
and related risks
E4-3 Actions
E4 SBM-3 Impacts, risks and opportunities
c) Targets used to manage nature-related dependencies, impacts, risks and opportunities and 
performance against targets
E4-4 Targets
UPM Financial Report 2025 249
UPM Annual Report 2025248 249
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Research and development
Innovating for the future
Innovation plays a key role in ensuring UPM’s long-term ability to grow 
and deliver consistently strong margins across all businesses. The 
company focuses on ensuring high performance in established 
businesses and creating opportunities in adjacent and new businesses. 
UPM adopts a structured approach to innovation to strengthen 
alignment with business priorities and future growth. The company has 
introduced a strategic innovation management model to improve 
prioritization, accelerate execution and ensure a measurable impact 
across the innovation portfolio through strategic alignment. 
   As part of this transformation, UPM Adhesive Materials piloted a 
global Product Development framework in 2025. The framework unifies 
processes across functions and regions, replacing fragmented practices 
with a single standard. This improves collaboration, data use and 
execution speed, demonstrating how structured innovation management 
delivers consistency and accelerates value creation.
In 2025, UPM spent €404 million (€488 million) on research and 
development, accounting for 28.8% (36.1%) of operating cash flow. In 
addition to direct R&D expenditure of €60 million (€70 million), the figure 
includes negative operating cash flow, as well as capital expenditure for 
developing businesses, transformative business prospects and 
digitalization projects. In September 2025, UPM’s Biomedicals business 
was closed, and all operations ceased. 
Patents, trademarks and rights protecting UPM’s innovations support 
the journey from innovation to business. UPM has more than 5,000 
patents and patent applications, and more than 2,000 trademarks 
globally. Licensing innovations and technologies provides an excellent 
basis for creating value with customers and technology partners.   
Extensive partner network 
UPM’s close-knit global network includes customers, universities, 
research organizations, suppliers and startup companies. Collaboration 
speeds up the development and launch of new business solutions.
UPM’s network includes the CLIC Innovation cluster, the Circular Bio-
based Europe Joint Undertaking (CBE JU), the European Chemical 
Industry Council (Cefic) and the Renewable Carbon Initiative (RCI). UPM 
is a member of the 4evergreen alliance, an initiative by the Confederation 
of European Paper Industries (Cepi) that aims to increase the overall 
recycling rate of fibre-based packaging to 90% by 2030. UPM is also a 
member of EUROPEN, a European association striving to achieve carbon 
neutrality in the packaging value chain.
UPM aims to contribute to initiatives that reduce greenhouse gas and 
CO₂ emissions. In 2025, the company participated in Hydrogen Cluster 
Finland to develop new technologies, business opportunities and climate 
benefits within the network. UPM also continued a five-year research 
program led by the VTT Technical Research Centre of Finland and RISE 
Research Institutes of Sweden on emission-free pulping. The program 
aims to significantly reduce biomass burning and increase product yield 
from wood from around 50% to approximately 70%.
Strong R&D infrastructure
UPM’s three research centers in Finland, China and Germany accelerate 
the development of bio-based products. These centers focus on research, 
piloting and analytics, enabling seamless collaboration with customers, 
value chain partners and research organizations such as universities. The 
centers work closely with UPM’s mills, businesses and business-specific 
research centers in various countries.
In Germany, UPM has increased biochemical R&D and piloting 
activities in several laboratories connected with the biochemicals refinery 
in Leuna. In 2025, UPM began development activities at the newly 
established research center in Halle, Germany. With a strong focus on 
biotechnology and advanced analytical tools, the center strengthens 
UPM’s capabilities to improve existing processes, support biochemicals 
operations, ensure product quality in customer applications and expand 
our product portfolio.
The company’s research center in Lappeenranta, Finland, focuses on 
developing renewable fibres, advanced materials and decarbonization 
solutions. UPM’s Asia research center in Changshu, China, focuses on 
ensuring the competitiveness of advanced materials. In Uruguay, the 
focus is on piloting future pulp end uses in close collaboration with UPM’s 
forestry research center, which specializes in eucalyptus plantations. 
UPM's focus in 2025
UPM Biochemicals - Ramping up new business
Decarbonization solutions offer innovative, sustainable ways to address 
society’s urgent need to reduce its carbon footprint. With the launch of its 
biochemicals business, UPM will enable its customers to transition from 
using fossil raw materials to wood-based alternatives for packaging, 
plastics, PET bottles, textiles and pharmaceuticals. These chemicals have 
a considerably lower CO₂ footprint than fossil-based chemical products, 
as documented by a third-party-reviewed LCA. 
In January 2020, UPM announced that it would invest in a 220,000-
tonne next-generation biochemicals refinery in Leuna, Germany. The 
investment’s estimated cost is €1,335 million. The start-up of the Leuna 
biorefinery progressed in 2025. The wood-to-lignin-and-sugar process 
was successfully ramped up and the first commercial deliveries of 
industrial sugars took place in Q4 2025. With the achieved progress in the 
critical first part of the process and the advanced status of corrective 
works in the final core processes, production and sales of further 
products, lignin, renewable functional fillers and finally glycols is expected 
to start in 2026.
The biorefinery achieved ISCC PLUS, PEFC and FSC™ chain-of-
custody certifications, which highlight UPM’s commitment to sustainable 
sourcing, full traceability and transparent operations.
The biorefinery is the first of its kind, and its process design and some 
of its technologies are new to the world. The biorefinery will produce a 
range of 100% wood-based biochemicals that will enable the transition 
from fossil raw materials to sustainable alternatives in various consumer-
driven applications. The investment opens up new markets for UPM with 
significant growth potential.
The industrial-scale biorefinery will convert solid wood into next-
generation biochemicals: bio-monoethylene glycol (BioMEG); and 
Renewable Functional Fillers (RFF). In addition, the biorefinery will produce 
bio-monopropylene glycol (BioMPG) and industrial sugars. 
The combination of a sustainable wood supply, unique technology 
concept, integration into existing infrastructure at Leuna and proximity to 
customers will ensure the competitiveness of operations. The value 
UPM Financial Report 2025 250
chain’s safety and sustainability will meet UPM’s high standards, and the 
strong focus on regional sourcing, especially of feedstock, will support 
market valuation.
Commercial interest in the main products and side streams has 
continued to be strong, with confirmed customer contracts and a sales 
and customer qualification pipeline exceeding the annual capacity 
multiple times. Sales allocation for 2026 volumes has started. The 
biorefinery is expected to reach full production and positive EBIT in 2027. 
The ROCE target for the UPM Biochemicals business is 14%.
In 2025, UPM Biochemicals and Nokian Tyres, a leading developer and 
manufacturer of premium tires, created the industry’s first concept tire, 
partly based on UPM BioMotion™ Renewable Functional Fillers (RFF). 
These fillers make up about 30% of a tire and consist of materials such as 
carbon black and precipitated silica. Initial tests show strong potential for 
reducing the environmental footprint of tires without compromising 
performance. This marks an important step toward more sustainable 
solutions in the automotive sector.
Also in 2025, UPM introduced UPM Circular Renewable Black™, the 
world’s first biobased, near-infrared (NIR)-detectable, carbon-negative 
pigment. It enables premium packaging solutions that combine design 
excellence with full recyclability and strong sustainability performance. 
UPM’s new pigment is derived from renewable lignin and certified by third-
party standards, including FSC™, PEFC and ISCC Plus. It provides a deep 
black color for premium esthetics, full NIR detectability for efficient 
recycling and a carbon-negative footprint, which supports climate-
positive brand solutions.
UPM Biofuels – Growing with advanced biofuels  
UPM’s renewable and sustainable biofuels help mitigate climate change. 
Advanced biofuels reduce greenhouse gas emissions by more than 80% 
compared to fossil fuels. In addition to decarbonizing road transportation, 
UPM helps de-fossilize various other industries by offering wood-based 
naphtha. Naphtha is a major raw material for most chemicals and 
plastics. UPM BioVerno™ naphtha is a drop-in replacement for fossil-
based naphtha, enabling the production of sustainable chemicals and 
plastics. UPM’s strategy is based on proprietary technology and UPM’s 
integrated feedstocks. With an annual capacity of 130,000 tonnes, the 
UPM Lappeenranta Biorefinery is the largest advanced biofuels-only 
refinery in the EU. 
In May 2025, UPM announced plans to discontinue the development 
of its potential second biomass-to-fuels refinery at the Port of Rotterdam 
after conducting extensive technical, commercial and strategic 
evaluations. Consequently, UPM halted all engineering activities related to 
the investment and withdrew from all associated commitments.
Renewable fuels and renewable chemicals are central to UPM’s long-
term growth strategy in decarbonization solutions. UPM is focusing on 
three targeted growth areas in its biofuels business:
• Evaluating the potential to debottleneck the Lappeenranta biorefinery 
to capture low CapEx expansion opportunities and leverage the strong 
market performance of crude tall oil (CTO)-derived biofuels.
• Enabling the qualification of CTO-derived UPM biofuels as sustainable 
aviation fuel (SAF). This strategic direction is supported by successful 
SAF trials conducted with the Austrian aircraft manufacturer Diamond 
Aircraft using Austro Engine propulsion, and continued progress in the 
technical acceptance process at the American Society for Testing and 
Materials (ASTM). Results from these trials and stakeholder reviews 
have been consistently positive.
• Continuing feedstock technology development to qualify and enable 
the use of additional competitive and sustainable biomass. This will 
support the cost-efficient production of high-quality biofuels for road 
and aviation applications.
Markets continue to grow and be driven by climate targets. It is 
estimated that around 30% of the fossil-derived fuels currently used for 
transportation in the EU could be replaced with advanced biofuels by 
2050.
UPM’s advanced biofuels belong to the most demanding 
sustainability category of the Renewable Energy Directive (RED II and 
RED III), which includes residues from agricultural and forestry activities. 
The EU-level directive (RED III) is expected to support demand and 
valuation for advanced renewable fuels, pending implementation in 
national legislation.
AI program and achievements in 2025
AI is expected to transform the global economy by increasing productivity 
and accelerating the discovery of new ideas. Accordingly, UPM has a 
comprehensive AI strategy and a company-wide AI program to 
implement selected transformations.  
The strategy sets the direction and roadmap for driving the adoption 
and benefits of AI in areas with high-impact potential and value, such as 
increased sales, optimized supply chains and improved operational 
efficiency. 
Launched to accelerate adoption across the company, UPM’s AI 
program delivered significant progress in 2025. Guided by four core 
values – growth, efficiency, experience, and data quality – the program 
drives twelve high-impact transformations aligned with strategic priorities. 
These transformations enable improved customer support, optimized 
operations and enhanced decision-making.
Key achievements include establishing the UPM AI Center of 
Excellence to scale and sustain AI capabilities. In June, new UPM AI 
guidelines were introduced to ensure the safe, secure and ethical use of AI. 
These guidelines are supported by five principles: human-centricity; 
transparency; accountability; data governance; and continuous 
development.
Operational highlights include the launch of “Griffy,” an AI-powered 
corporate chatbot that improves access to information, and pilots in 
areas such as automated order intake, invoice handling, supplier query 
processes and maintenance optimization. These initiatives enhance 
productivity, reinvent processes, and unlock new value for customers and 
employees.
To build AI literacy, UPM launched a company-wide e-learning course 
in the basics of AI and included aspects of it in mandatory compliance 
training. People leaders received guidance on encouraging AI discussions 
in their teams. This guidance is complemented by a dedicated portal and 
practical learning sessions. 
The AI Program demonstrates UPM’s dedication to innovation and 
renewal. By combining technology with human expertise, UPM is 
developing the systemic capabilities necessary for sustainable growth 
and competitiveness in the evolving digital landscape.
UPM Financial Report 2025 251
UPM Annual Report 2025250 251
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Sustainable packaging
In food packaging, one of the key features is barrier protection, which 
ensures that food reaches consumers in perfect condition. Plastic, glass 
and metal packaging has traditionally been widely used to provide this 
protection. 
Packaging requirements vary greatly, depending on several factors, 
including the characteristics of the food itself, the surrounding climate 
conditions, the size and format of the package, and the logistics route 
used. Sugar-coated confectionery, dark chocolate and cereals, for 
example, are well preserved with lower barrier protection. Our existing 
barrier paper portfolio is well suited for these types of end-uses.
However, most packaging applications require much higher barrier 
protection. Through co-creation with partners in the packaging value 
chain, UPM Specialty Papers aims to enhance the performance of fibre-
based packaging and help brand owners and converters transition to it. 
In 2025, UPM Specialty Papers introduced a fibre-based alternative to 
plastic and aluminum packaging solutions. These recyclable, food-safe 
barrier papers were developed in collaboration with Royal Vaassen, a 
Dutch company.
UPM Specialty Papers, Orkla Suomi and Walki Westpak also piloted a 
new paper wrapper for Panda Milk chocolate. The new wrapper has been 
validated as recyclable in existing fibre-recycling streams and has 
undergone extensive testing, including shelf-life tests. During the six-
month pilot period, the new wrappers replaced the traditional PP plastic 
wrappers. 
Co-creation projects have resulted in innovative packaging solutions 
that combine high barrier properties, sealability and runnability on high-
speed packaging machines. These solutions are typically designed for 
demanding uses such as food packaging for coffee, chocolate and 
confectionery products. They offer a recyclable alternative to traditional 
plastic packaging.
Implementing sustainable product design concept
The UPM Sustainable Product Design concept supports and guides the 
company’s product development projects. It promotes a life-cycle-based 
approach to design and ensures that every new product and service has a 
proven sustainability value proposition and meaningfully contributes to 
the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). With this concept, UPM 
prioritizes customer and consumer needs in the company’s development 
efforts. This allows UPM to create solutions that align with market 
sustainability expectations.
The concept is a key element of the global UPM Product Stewardship 
standard, which was launched in January 2025. Implementation has 
progressed across all business areas and is supported by joint workshops 
that foster collaboration and knowledge-sharing. The concept is currently 
being applied in various product development projects across the 
business areas. 
One notable example is the Carbon Action label portfolio of UPM 
Adhesive Materials, which demonstrates how the concept translates into 
tangible solutions that advance our sustainability goals.  
 
UPM Financial Report 2025 252
R&D’s role in different businesses
Business area Description
UPM Fibres UPM Fibres’ global R&D presence enables the company to work faster and better with customers and partners to find and implement solutions 
that are both necessary and fit for purpose. Through continuous R&D efforts, numerous improvements have been made to the pulp mills’ 
operational reliability, safety, and environmental performance, as well as the performance and qualities of our different pulp products. UPM Fibres 
has specialized pulp R&D capabilities at the Asia Research Center in Changshu, China, the Research & Development Center in Lappeenranta, 
Finland, and at the pulp mills.
UPM’s commitment to developing sustainable, high-quality eucalyptus plantations for pulp production remains at the core of operations in 
Uruguay. The Forestry R&D Center and three tree nurseries produce high-quality seedlings for new plantations and support the operations of the 
company’s two pulp mills. UPM has capitalized on long-term R&D in circular economy solutions for pulp mill waste materials. 
The company has established a continuous supply of a dried mix of biosludge and lime sludge for a local cement factory. This reduces landfill 
waste at the UPM Fray Bentos pulp mill and replaces the cement factory’s fossil CO₂ energy sources with renewable biofuel. UPM has also made 
progress in developing agricultural liming agents from recycled alkaline waste materials. The first material has been productized into a liming 
agent, and commercial development has begun.
UPM is also exploring ways to utilize biogenic CO₂ further. The options being explored include creating negative emissions by storing the biogenic 
CO₂ emitted by pulp mills and using it to produce carbon-neutral synthetic fuels and chemicals.
UPM Energy The focus was on improving the cost-competitiveness and environmental performance of hydropower production assets. Significant development 
efforts were made to adapt to several changes in the power market. UPM Energy participated in several research programs and continued its 
development work within UPM’s stream water program. These efforts aimed to mitigate the impact of hydropower operations on rivers and 
migratory fish.
UPM Adhesive 
Materials
The Product Development (PD) and Innovation organization at UPM Adhesive Materials plays a key role in maintaining competitiveness in a 
rapidly evolving market. Innovation is the cornerstone of the entire organization, enabling the company to exceed customer expectations and 
support sustainable growth. UPM’s development experts have a deep understanding of end-uses and anticipate market needs, translating them 
into actionable innovations. The global network of experts at UPM Adhesive Materials delivers region-specific solutions while leveraging collective, 
cross-functional global expertise. Sustainable product design is at the core of UPM Adhesive Materials’ efforts, with key aspects like life cycle 
assessments guiding decision-making. The company continues to shift its product portfolio toward innovative, scalable solutions that meet 
growing customer and regulatory needs to tackle issues such as climate and circularity. 
UPM Specialty 
Papers
UPM’s R&D and product development initiatives aim to enable high performance and efficiency in the value chain, as well as to develop fibre-
based alternatives for non-renewable materials. These initiatives also support growth targets by innovating solutions for new applications. R&D 
efforts also focus on driving operational excellence at UPM Specialty Papers.   
UPM continues to collaborate with the packaging value network to co-create recyclable, paper-based packaging solutions for various end 
uses that meet regulatory requirements such as PPWR. The company currently has several co-creation initiatives in progress, supported by its 
excellent R&D infrastructure, including Northern European and Asian R&D centers. 
UPM Specialty Papers is developing label papers to improve efficiency and minimize the value chain’s environmental impact. 
UPM 
Communication 
Papers
In the energy sector, the R&D work focused on reducing energy consumption. Best practices are shared during regular inter-unit energy audits. 
One example of this approach is the recent decision to install a new type of heat pump at the Augsburg paper mill. This installation will serve as a 
model for other industries. UPM expects this innovation to further reduce CO2 emissions in the steam generation process by 15%. The 
electrification of the heat and steam generation systems, implemented over the past two years, is another excellent example of ecological and 
economic progress.
Thanks to research and development in the energy sector, demand for electricity from the German grid has decreased by over 20%. This 
means that the carbon footprint from fossil fuels in 2025 was considerably lower than in 2024.
The transition of the Finnish electricity market from hourly to 15-minute resolution has created new market participation opportunities while 
presenting challenges to previous operating models. UPM has ensured the effective implementation of these changes through the development of 
operating models and by securing the competence of the personnel.
The Research & Development Center in Lappeenranta, Finland, and the Central European Support Team in Augsburg, Germany, continued to 
investigate fibre concepts for various paper grades. UPM Communication Papers participated in projects and associated activities to maintain the 
recyclability of RCP. UPM’s R&D teams supported the optimization of the deinking process to minimize material loss and reduce energy and water 
consumption. Product portfolio development focused on the needs of key customer groups.
R&D efforts also aimed to improve several mills’ efficiency to identify areas for reducing costs, material losses, and improving the safety, 
quality, and performance of UPM’s paper products. The R&D teams’ contributions helped achieve the 2030 targets in the areas of energy, water 
consumption, effluent treatment, and resource efficiency. 
UPM Plywood The UPM Plywood product management and development team offers competitive products in selected end-use areas. The team collaborates 
with customers and end users to provide superior technical expertise and support, as well as assistance with the commercialization of newly 
developed products and applications. An example of testing with end users is WISA®-TopGrip, which was installed in two transportation operators’ 
trailers for trial use. The product offers a fixed, durable non-slip surface for vehicle floors, replacing loose friction mats. 
Other operations 
UPM Biorefining
UPM Biochemicals R&D played a key role in the startup and commissioning of the Leuna biorefinery. The production process is also continuously 
being improved.
The development of new applications for renewable plastics based on UPM BioVerno naphtha continued. Piloting, research, and process 
development also continued at the UPM Biorefinery Development Center (BrDC) and with external partners. UPM also studied and tested several 
innovative new feedstocks that meet sustainability criteria such as forest industry residues.
UPM Biofuels continued the registration process for tall-oil-based biofuels for use in jet engines with the American Society for Testing and 
Materials (ASTM), a necessary step for entering the production of sustainable aviation fuels, one of the UPM Lappeenranta refinery’s potential 
products. The registration process and discussions with technical partners in the aviation industry are ongoing.
UPM Financial Report 2025 253
UPM Annual Report 2025252 253
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Information on shares
Shares
UPM has one class of shares. Each share entitles the holder to one vote at 
the General Meeting of UPM.
On  December 31, 2025, the total number of UPM shares was 
527,735,699. Through the issuance authorization described below, the 
number of shares may increase to a maximum of 552,735,699. 
On December 31, 2025, UPM held 411,653 treasury shares, representing 
approximately 0.08% of the total number of UPM shares and voting 
rights. There are no specific terms related to the shares.
In 2025, UPM shares worth a total of €7,462 million (7,936 million) 
were traded on the Nasdaq Helsinki stock exchange. This is estimated to 
represent approximately 70% of the total trading volume in UPM shares. 
The highest listing was  €30.07 in February and the lowest was €21.72 in 
October.
Authorizations held by the Board of Directors
The Annual General Meeting held on March 27, 2025, authorized the 
Board of Directors to decide on the repurchase of a maximum of 
50,000,000 of the company’s own shares. The authorization will be valid 
for 18 months from the date of the AGM resolution.
The Annual General Meeting held on March 27, 2025, authorized the 
Board of Directors to decide on the issuance of new shares, the transfer of 
treasury shares and the issuance of special rights entitling to shares in 
proportion to the shareholders’ existing holdings in the company, or in a 
directed share issue, deviating from the shareholder’s pre-emptive 
subscription right. The Board of Directors may also decide on a share 
issue without payment to the company itself. The aggregate maximum 
number of new shares that may be issued and treasury shares that may 
be transferred is 25,000,000, including the number of shares that can be 
received on the basis of special rights. The authorization will be valid for 18 
months from the date of the AGM resolution. 
Aside from the above, the Board of Directors has no current 
authorization to issue shares, convertible bonds or share options.
Changes in number of shares
2025 2024 2023 2022 2021
Number of shares January 1  533,735,699  533,735,699  533,735,699  533,735,699  533,735,699 
Number of shares at December 31  527,735,699  533,735,699  533,735,699  533,735,699  533,735,699 
Major shareholders at  December 31, 2025
Number of shares Holding %
Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company  15,658,000  2.97 
Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company  15,239,764  2.89 
ELO Mutual Pension Insurance Company  7,911,000  1.50 
The State Pension Fund  3,800,000  0.72 
Nordea Bank ABP  2,722,547  0.52 
Investment fund Seligson & Co  1,883,840  0.36 
Svenska Litteratursällskapet i Finland rf (Svenska Kulturfonden)  1,864,271  0.35 
Kymin Osakeyhtiön 100-vuotissäätiö  1,696,360  0.32 
OP-Suomi investment fund  1,554,759  0.29 
OP Life Assurance Ltd  1,499,385  0.28 
Nominees & Registered foreign owners  326,295,245  61.83 
Others  147,610,528  27.97 
Total  527,735,699  100.00 
UPM Financial Report 2025 254
Shareholders by category at December 31, %
2025 2024 2023 2022 2021
Companies  3.2  2.9  2.6  2.6  2.9 
Financial institutions and insurance companies  4.6  4.4  3.8  3.6  3.7 
Public bodies  8.7  7.2  5.3  5.3  5.8 
Non-profit organizations  3.9  4.0  4.4  4.5  4.6 
Households  17.7  16.9  16.4  16.0  15.8 
Non-Finnish nationals  61.8  64.7  67.6  68.1  67.2 
Total  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0 
Share distribution at  December 31, 2025 
Size of shareholdings
Number of 
share-holders
% of 
share-holders
Number of 
shares, million % of shares
1 – 100  67,696  43.84  2.9  0.5 
101 – 1,000  67,146  43.48  25.2  4.8 
1,001 – 10,000  18,110  11.73  47.7  9.0 
10,001 – 100,000  1,335  0.86  31.8  6.0 
100,001 –  137  0.09  96.6  18.3 
Total  154,424  100.00  204.2  38.7 
Nominee-registered  323.5  61.3 
Not registered as book entry units  —  — 
Total  527.7  100.0 
Under the provisions of the Securities Markets Act, changes in holdings must be disclosed when the holding reaches, exceeds or falls below 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 50 or 66.7 (2/3) percent of the 
voting rights or the number of shares of the company. The stock exchange releases on notifications of changes in holdings pursuant to Chapter 9, Section 5 of the Securities Market Act are 
available in UPM website » upm.com/investors.
UPM Financial Report 2025 255
UPM Annual Report 2025254 255
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Adjusted share related indicators
2025 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Earnings per share (EPS), € 0.91 0.82 0.73 2.86 2.41 1.05 1.99 2.80 1.82 1.65
Comparable EPS, € 1.33 1.74 1.40 3.09 2.22 1.37 2.07 2.24 1.88 1.65
Equity per share, € 18.97 20.89 20.93 23.44 20.34 17.53 18.87 18.36 16.24 15.43
Dividend per share, € 1) 1.50 1.50 1.50 1.50 1.30 1.30 1.30 1.30 1.15 0.95
Dividend to earnings ratio, % 165.2 183.6 206.2 52.4 53.9 123.7 65.4 46.4 63.0 57.6
Dividend to operating cash flow, % 56 59 35 158 55 69 38 52 42 30
Dividend to comparable EPS, % 113 86 107 49 59 95 63 58 61 58
Effective dividend yield, % 6.1 5.6 4.4 4.3 3.9 4.3 4.2 5.9 4.4 4.1
P/E ratio 27.3 32.5 46.8 12.2 13.9 29.0 15.5 7.9 14.2 14.1
Operating cash flow per share, € 2.66 2.54 4.25 0.95 2.34 1.89 3.46 2.49 2.74 3.16
Dividend distribution, € million 1) 791 792 800 800 693 693 693 693 613 507
Share price at Dec 31., € 24.79 26.56 34.06 34.93 33.46 30.47 30.91 22.15 25.91 23.34
Lowest quotation, € 21.72 24.78 26.62 24.85 29.11 20.31 21.10 21.69 20.82 13.71
Highest quotation, € 30.07 35.77 35.99 37.14 35.37 31.50 31.49 34.70 26.69 23.41
Average quotation for the period, € 24.63 30.16 31.33 32.50 32.15 26.09 25.73 28.86 23.89 17.51
Market capitalization, € million 13,072 14,165 18,165 18,629 17,845 16,250 16,485 11,813 13,818 12,452
Shares traded, € million 2) 7,462 7,936 8,752 9,680 8,435 9,921 9,695 9,980 8,460 6,749
Shares traded (1,000) 302,997 263,124 279,371 297,879 262,377 380,237 376,801 345,822 354,053 385,355
Shares traded, % of all shares 57.3 49.3 52.4 55.9 49.2 71.3 70.7 64.8 66.4 72.2
Number of shares, average (1,000) 528,554 533,324 533,324 533,324 533,324 533,324 533,324 533,324 533,415 533,505
Number of shares at the end of period (1,000) 527,736 533,736 533,736 533,736 533,736 533,736 533,736 533,736 533,736 533,736
of which treasury shares (1,000) 412 412 412 412 412 412 412 412 412 231
1) 2025 proposal
2) Trading on the Nasdaq Helsinki Main Market. Treasury shares bought by the company are included in shares traded.
The definitions of adjusted share related indicators are described below
Share related indicators Definition
Earnings per share (EPS), € Profit for the period attributable to owners of the parent company divided by adjusted 
average number of shares during the period excluding treasury shares.
Comparable EPS, € Earnings per share calculated in accordance with IFRS excluding items affecting 
comparability and their tax impact.
Equity per share, € Equity attributable to the owners of the parent company in relation to the adjusted number 
of shares at the end of period.
Dividend per share, € Dividend distribution divided by adjusted number of shares at the end of period.
Dividend to earnings ratio, % Dividend per share as a percentage of earnings per share.
Dividend to operating cash flow, % Dividend per share as a percentage of operating cash flow per share.
Dividend to comparable EPS, % Dividend per share as a percentage of comparable earnings per share
Effective dividend yield, % Adjusted dividend per share as a percentage of adjusted share price at December 31
P/E ratio Adjusted share price in relation to the earnings per share.
Operating cash flow per share, € Operating cash flow divided by adjusted average number of shares during the period 
excluding treasury shares.
Market capitalization, € million Total number of shares (excluding those held as treasury shares) multiplied by the share 
price at the end of period.
Adjusted share price at the end of period Share price at the end of period in relation to share issue coefficient.
Adjusted average share price Total value of shares traded in relation to adjusted number of shares traded during the 
period.
UPM Financial Report 2025 256
Board of Directors´ proposal for 
the distribution of profit
The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting of UPM-
Kymmene Corporation to be held on April 9, 2026,  that an 
aggregate dividend of €1.50 per share be paid based on the balance 
sheet to be adopted for the financial year ending  December 31, 2025, 
and that the remaining portion of the distributable funds be retained 
in the company’s unrestricted shareholders’ equity. The Board proposes 
that the dividend be paid in two instalments.
The first dividend instalment, €0.75 per share, is proposed to be paid 
to shareholders registered in the company’s register of shareholders 
maintained by Euroclear Finland Oy on the record date for the first 
dividend instalment April 13, 2026. The Board proposes that the payment 
date for the first dividend instalment would be on April 21, 2026. 
The second dividend instalment, €0.75 per share, is proposed to be 
paid to shareholders registered in the company's register of shareholders 
maintained by Euroclear Finland Oy on the record date for the second 
dividend instalment October 30, 2026. The Board proposes that the 
payment date for the second dividend instalment would be on November 
6, 2026.
If the payment of the dividend is prevented due to applicable law,  
regulation or unexpected circumstances, the Board will resolve, as soon  
as practically possible, on a new record date and payment date.
On the date of the dividend proposal, February 4, 2026, the registered 
number of the company’s shares is 527,735,699. The aforementioned 
number of shares includes 411,653 treasury shares which are not entitled 
to dividend. As a result, the proposed dividend would total €791 million.
On  December 31, 2025, the distributable funds of the parent company 
were €3,065,993,436.22. The profit of the parent company for the period 
was €1,148,309,149.44. No material changes have taken place in respect 
of the company's financial position after the balance sheet date. In the 
opinion of the Board Of Directors, the proposed distribution of profits 
does not risk the solvency of the company.
Signatures of the annual 
accounts and the report of the 
Board of Directors for the year 
2025
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 
applicable accounting standards and they give a true and fair view of the 
assets, obligations, financial position and profit or loss of both the 
company and the group of companies included in the consolidated 
financial statements. The Board of Directors' report includes a truthful 
description of the development and results of the business of both the 
company and the group of companies included in the consolidated 
financial statements and a description of the most significant risks and 
uncertainties and other state of the company. The Sustainability 
Statement included in the Board of Director's Report has been prepared 
in accordance with the reporting standards indicated in the Accounting 
Act chapter 7 and Article 8 of the Taxonomy Regulation.
Helsinki, February 4, 2026
Henrik Ehrnrooth
Chair Kim Wahl Pia Aaltonen-Forsell
Jari Gustafsson Piia-Noora Kauppi Melanie Maas-Brunner
Topi Manner Marjan Oudeman Martin à Porta
Massimo Reynaudo
President and CEO
UPM Financial Report 2025 257
UPM Annual Report 2025256 257
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsReport of the Board of Directors Sustainability Statement 

Financial 
Statements 2025
Consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income 260
Consolidated balance sheet 261
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 262
Consolidated cash flow statement 263
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 265
1.   Basis for reporting 266 5.   Capital structure 298
1.1 Corporate information 266 5.1 Capital management 298
1.2 Basis of preparation 266 5.2 Net debt 301
1.3 Consolidation principles 267 5.3 Financial assets and liabilities by category 307
1.4 Foreign currency translation 267 5.4 Financial income and expenses 310
1.5 Changes in accounting policies 268 5.5 Share capital and reserves 311
2.   Business performance 269 6.   Risk management 313
2.1 Business areas 269 6.1 Financial risk management 313
2.2 Sales 274 6.2 Derivatives and hedge accounting 315
2.3 Operating expenses and other operating income 276
2.4 Earnings per share and dividend 278 7.   Income tax 319
7.1 Tax on profit for the year 319
3.   Employee rewards 279 7.2 Deferred tax 320
3.1 Employee costs 279
3.2 Key management personnel 279 8.   Group structure 322
3.3 Share-based payments 281 8.1 Business acquisitions and disposals 322
3.4 Retirement benefit obligations 283 8.2 Principal subsidiaries and joint operations 323
8.3 Related party transactions 325
4.   Capital employed 286 8.4 Assets held for sale 325
4.1 Property, plant and equipment 287
4.2 Forest assets 289 9.   Unrecognized items 326
4.3 Financial assets at FVOCI 290 9.1 Commitments and contingencies 326
4.4 Goodwill and other intangible assets 292 9.2 Litigation 326
4.5 Provisions 294 9.3 Events after balance sheet date 326
4.6 Working capital 296
10.   Other notes 327
10.1 Forthcoming accounting policy changes 327
10.2 Forthcoming new standards, amendments
        and other accounting policy changes 328
Parent company accounts 329
UPM Financial Report 2025 259
UPM Annual Report 2025258 259
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

Consolidated financial statements
Consolidated income statement
€ million Note 2025 2024
Sales 2.1, 2.2  9,656  10,339 
Other operating income  2.3  174  130 
Costs and expenses  2.3  -8,630  -8,806 
Change in fair value of forest assets and wood harvested  4.2  144  80 
Share of results of associated companies and joint ventures  0  1 
Depreciation, amortization and impairment charges 2.3, 4.1, 4.4, 5.2  -594  -1,139 
Operating profit  749  604 
Exchange rate and fair value gains and losses  5.4  43  -7 
Interest and other finance costs, net  5.4  -102  -97 
Profit before tax  690  500 
Income taxes  7.1  -200  -37 
Profit for the period  491  463 
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent company  480  436 
Non-controlling interests  8.1  11  27 
 491  463 
Earnings per share for profit attributable to owners of the parent company
Basic earnings per share, €  2.4  0.91  0.82 
Diluted earnings per share, €  2.4  0.91  0.82 
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
€ million Note 2025 2024
Profit for the period  491  463 
Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit plans  31  4 
Changes in fair value of financial assets at FVOCI  -87  -47 
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to income statement:
Translation differences  -724  346 
Net investment hedge  37  -13 
Cash flow hedges  38  78 
Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax 7.2  -705  368 
Total comprehensive income for the period  -214  831 
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent company  -180  781 
Non-controlling interests  -34  50 
 -214  831 
The notes are integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
UPM Financial Report 2025 260
Consolidated balance sheet
€ million Note 2025 2024
ASSETS
Goodwill  4.4  264  174 
Other intangible assets  4.4  554  580 
Property, plant and equipment  4.1  6,459  7,085 
Leased assets  5.2  778  847 
Forest assets  4.2  2,605  2,517 
Financial assets at FVOCI  4.3  2,193  2,247 
Other non-current financial assets  5.3  24  44 
Deferred tax assets  7.2  413  526 
Net retirement benefit assets  3.4  1  1 
Investments in associates and joint ventures  27  20 
Other non-current assets  22  21 
Non-current assets  13,337  14,062 
Inventories  4.6  1,886  2,104 
Trade and other receivables 4.6, 5.3  1,481  1,929 
Other current financial assets  5.3  78  69 
Income tax receivables  35  40 
Cash and cash equivalents 5.1, 5.3  715  892 
Current assets  4,194  5,034 
Assets  17,532  19,096 
€ million Note 2025 2024
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Share capital  5.5  890  890 
Treasury shares  -2  -2 
Translation reserve  15  657 
Other reserves  5.5  1,622  1,678 
Reserve for invested non-restricted equity  5.5  1,273  1,273 
Retained earnings  6,205  6,644 
Equity attributable to owners of the parent company  10,001  11,139 
Non-controlling interests  8.1  333  401 
Equity  10,335  11,540 
Deferred tax liabilities  7.2  692  673 
Net retirement benefit liabilities  3.4  439  496 
Provisions  4.5  101  89 
Non-current debt 5.2, 5.3  3,638  3,747 
Other non-current financial liabilities  5.3  90  158 
Non-current liabilities  4,961  5,162 
Current debt 5.2, 5.3  156  166 
Trade and other payables 4.6, 5.3  1,839  1,938 
Provisions  4.5  179  165 
Other current financial liabilities  5.3  37  108 
Income tax payables  25  18 
Current liabilities  2,237  2,395 
Liabilities  7,197  7,556 
Equity and liabilities  17,532  19,096 
The notes are integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
UPM Financial Report 2025 261
UPM Annual Report 2025260 261
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
€ million
Share 
capital
Treasury 
shares
Trans-
lation 
reserve
Other 
reserves
Reserve for 
invested 
non-
restricted 
equity
Retained 
earnings
Equity 
attributable 
to owners of 
the parent 
company
Non-controlling 
interests
Total 
equity
Value at January 1, 2025  890  -2  657  1,678  1,273  6,644  11,139  401  11,540 
Profit for the period  —  —  —  —  —  480  480  11  491 
Translation differences  —  —  -679  —  —  —  -679  -45  -724 
Cash flow hedges - reclassified to 
income statement, net of tax  —  —  —  -68  —  —  -68  —  -68 
Cash flow hedges - change in fair 
value, net of tax  —  —  —  106  —  —  106  —  106 
Net investment hedge, net of tax  —  —  37  —  —  —  37  —  37 
Financial assets at FVOCI  - 
changes in fair value, net of tax  —  —  —  -87  —  —  -87  —  -87 
Actuarial gains and losses on 
defined benefit plans, net of tax  —  —  —  —  —  31  31  —  31 
Total comprehensive income  for 
the period  —  —  -642  -49  —  511  -180  -34  -214 
Share-based payments, net of tax  —  —  —  -7  —  3  -4  —  -4 
Acquisition of treasury shares  —  -160  —  —  —  —  -160  —  -160 
Cancellation of treasury shares  —  160  —  —  —  -160  —  —  — 
Dividend distribution  —  —  —  —  —  -792  -792  -23  -816 
Return of capital to non-
controlling interests  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  -8  -8 
Other items  —  —  —  —  —  -1  -1  —  -1 
Acquisition of shares from non-
controlling interests  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  -2  -2 
Total transactions with owners for 
the period  —  —  —  -7  —  -950  -957  -34  -991 
Total equity at  December 31, 
2025  890  -2  15  1,622  1,273  6,205  10,001  333  10,335 
Value at January 1, 2024  890  -2  347  1,655  1,273  6,998  11,161  370  11,531 
Profit for the period  —  —  —  —  —  436  436  27  463 
Translation differences  —  —  322  —  —  —  322  23  346 
Cash flow hedges - reclassified to 
income statement, net of tax  —  —  —  6  —  —  6  —  6 
Cash flow hedges - change in fair 
value, net of tax  —  —  —  72  —  —  72  —  72 
Net investment hedge, net of tax  —  —  -13  —  —  —  -13  —  -13 
Financial assets at FVOCI  - 
changes in fair value, net of tax  —  —  —  -51  —  4  -47  —  -47 
Actuarial gains and losses on 
defined benefit plans, net of tax  —  —  —  —  —  4  4  —  4 
Total comprehensive income 
for the period  —  —  309  27  —  444  781  50  831 
Share-based payments, net of tax  —  —  —  -4  —  2  -2  —  -2 
Dividend distribution  —  —  —  —  —  -800  -800  -19  -819 
Other items  —  —  —  —  —  -1  -1  —  -1 
Total transactions with owners 
for the period  —  —  —  -4  —  -799  -803  -19  -822 
Total equity at December 31, 
2024  890  -2  657  1,678  1,273  6,644  11,139  401  11,540 
Refer to » Note 5.5 Share capital and reserves, for further information.
UPM Financial Report 2025 262
Consolidated cash flow statement
€ million 2025 2024
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit for the period  491  463 
Adjustments 1)  743  1,223 
Interest received  19  31 
Interest paid  -126  -133 
Dividends received  8  4 
Other financial items, net  -24  -13 
Income taxes paid 3)  -96  -144 
Change in working capital 2)  391  -80 
Operating cash flow  1,405  1,352 
Cash flows from investing activities
Capital expenditure  -364  -543 
Additions to forest assets  -64  -53 
Acquisition of businesses and subsidiaries, net of cash acquired  -124  -28 
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, net of tax 3)  84  10 
Proceeds from sale of forest assets, net of tax 3)  20  19 
Proceeds from disposal of businesses and subsidiaries and advances received  —  16 
Proceeds from disposal of shares in associates and joint ventures  —  1 
Proceeds from disposal of financial assets at FVOCI  0  5 
Net cash flows from net investment hedges  20  -1 
Change in other non-current assets  0  -10 
Investing cash flow  -428  -586 
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from non-current debt  65  600 
Payments of non-current debt  -148  -23 
Lease repayments  -112  -105 
Change in current liabilities  32  -182 
Net cash flows from derivatives  14  -5 
Acquisition of treasury shares  -160  — 
Dividends paid to owners of the parent company  -792  -801 
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests  -23  -19 
Return of capital to non-controlling interest  -8  — 
Other financing cash flow  -1  -10 
Financing cash flow  -1,135  -544 
Change in cash and cash equivalents  -158  222 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period  892  632 
Exchange rate effect on cash and cash equivalents  -19  -2 
Change in cash and cash equivalents  -158  222 
Cash and cash equivalents classified as held for sale (Note 8.1)  —  39 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period  715  892 
UPM Financial Report 2025 263
UPM Annual Report 2025262 263
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

1) Adjustments
€ million 2025 2024
Change in fair value of forest assets and wood harvested  -144  -80 
Share of results of associated companies and joint ventures  0  -1 
Depreciation, amortization and impairment charges  594  1,139 
Capital gains and losses on sale of non-current assets  -57  -31 
Financial income and expenses  59  104 
Income taxes  200  37 
Utilized provisions  -95  -121 
Non-cash changes in provisions  125  101 
Other adjustments  60  74 
Total  743  1,223 
2) Change in working capital
€ million 2025 2024
Inventories  123  -94 
Receivables included in working capital  396  -81 
Liabilities included in working capital  -128  95 
Total  391  -80 
3) Total income taxes paid in 2025 amounted to €97 million (145 million). Income taxes paid related to investing activities are presented in investing cash flow. 
UPM Financial Report 2025 264
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
The notes to the consolidated financial statements are grouped into sections based on their nature. The notes 
contain the relevant financial information as well as a description of accounting policy and key estimates and 
judgments applied for the topics of the individual notes. All amounts are shown in millions of euros unless 
otherwise stated.
Items marked with this 
symbol describe the 
accounting principle by UPM 
to specific financial 
statement area.
Items marked with this symbol 
indicate that the accounting 
area involves estimates and 
judgment which are described 
separately.
Risks related to disclosures, 
whether they are financial, actuarial, 
credit or counterparty in nature, can 
be found in sections marked with 
this symbol.
UPM Financial Report 2025 265
UPM Annual Report 2025264 265
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

1. Basis for reporting
1.1 Corporate information
UPM-Kymmene Corporation (“the parent company” or “the company”) 
together with its consolidated subsidiaries (“UPM” or “the Group”) is a 
global forest-based bioindustry Group. UPM´s large product range covers 
pulp, graphic and specialty papers, self-adhesive labels, wood-based 
renewable diesel, electricity, as well as plywood and timber products.
UPM-Kymmene Corporation is a Finnish limited liability company, 
domiciled in Helsinki in the Republic of Finland. The address of the 
company’s registered office is Alvar Aallon katu 1, 00100 Helsinki, where a 
copy of the consolidated financial statements can be obtained.
The parent company’s shares are publicly traded on the Nasdaq 
Helsinki Main Market.
These Group consolidated financial statements were authorized 
for issue by the Board of Directors on February 4, 2026. According to the 
Finnish Companies Act, the General Meeting of Shareholders is entitled to 
decide on the adoption of the company’s financial statements. 
1.2 Basis of preparation
UPM’s consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board and as adopted by the EU (IFRS as issued by 
the IASB and as adopted by the European Union) and IFRIC Interpretations.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under 
the historical cost convention, except for forest assets, energy 
shareholdings and certain other financial assets and financial liabilities, 
defined benefit plan assets and obligations and share-based payment 
arrangements which are measured at fair value.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in millions of 
euros, which is the functional and presentation currency of the parent 
company. Items included in the financial statements of each Group 
subsidiary are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the subsidiary operates (“the functional currency”).
The amounts within parentheses refer to the preceding year, 2024. 
Figures presented in these financial statements are rounded and 
therefore the sum of individual figures might deviate from the presented total 
figure.
In accordance with the European Single Electronic Format (ESEF) 
reporting requirements, UPM has published the Board of Directors' report 
and the financial statements as an XHTML file as its official financial 
statements. In line with the ESEF requirements, the primary statements of 
the consolidated financial statements and notes have been labeled with 
XBRL tags. The Group has also voluntarily published its financial 
statements in a PDF format. The consolidated financial statements have 
been prepared in two languages, of which the Finnish version is official and 
the English translation is unofficial. 
Accounting policies
The accounting policies applied to the consolidated financial statements 
as a whole are described in this section, while the remaining accounting 
policies are described in the notes to which they relate as UPM aims to 
provide enhanced understanding of each financial statement area. 
Further, to provide a better understanding, the accounting choices made 
within the framework of the prevailing IFRS Accounting Standards are 
described together with the policy.
Key estimates and judgments
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, management 
has made a number of judgments and applied estimates of future events 
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of 
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, 
and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting 
periods. Although these estimates are based on management’s best 
knowledge, actual results and timing may ultimately differ from previously 
made estimates.
Key estimates and judgments which are material to the reported 
results and financial position are presented in the following notes.
Key estimates and judgments Note
Valuation of forest assets 4.2 Forest assets
Fair value determination of financial assets at 
FVOCI 4.3 Financial assets at FVOCI
Impairment of property, plant and equipment 4.1 Property, plant and equipment
Impairment of goodwill and other intangible 
assets
4.4 Goodwill and other intangible 
assets
Pension and other post-employment benefits 3.4 Retirement benefit obligations
Income taxes 7. Income tax
Environmental provisions 4.5 Provisions
Legal contingencies 9.2 Litigation
Financial risks
UPM is exposed to a variety of financial risks as a result of its business 
activities including currency risk, interest rate risk, commodity price risk, 
credit risk, capital risk and liquidity risk. Risk management related to financial 
activities is carried out by UPM’s central treasury department, Treasury and 
Risk Management, under policies approved by the Board of Directors. 
Financial risks are described in the relevant notes as described below
UPM Financial Report 2025 266
Financial risk Note
Credit risk 4.6 Working capital
Liquidity and refinancing risk 5.1 Capital management
Interest rate risk 6.1 Financial risk management
Foreign exchange risk 6.1 Financial risk management
Electricity price risk 6.1 Financial risk management
Financial counterparty risk 6.2 Derivatives and hedge accounting
Climate-related risks
Climate change 
UPM is exposed to a variety of risks related to climate change. Strategic 
risks related to climate change include risks concerning competition, 
markets, customers, products and regulation. For example, unpredictable 
regulation, subsidies or EU policies and resulting national legislation in EU 
countries may distort raw material, energy and final product markets, and 
changing costs of greenhouse gas emissions may influence UPM’s 
financial performance. Other risks related to climate change particularly 
concern UPM’s supply chain as well as the availability and price of major 
inputs, such as wood and electricity. Refer to » note 2.3 Operating 
expenses and other operating income and note 4.2 Forest assets for 
information on items exposed to climate-related risks.
1.3 Consolidation principles
Subsidiaries
UPM’s consolidated financial statements include the financial statements 
of the parent company, UPM-Kymmene Corporation, and subsidiaries 
controlled by UPM. All Group entities consistently apply UPM’s accounting 
policies. All inter-company transactions, receivables, liabilities and 
unrealized profits, as well as intragroup profit distributions, are eliminated. 
Unrealized losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides 
evidence of an impairment of the transferred asset.
Joint operations
A joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint 
control of the arrangement have rights to the assets, and 
obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement. Joint control is a 
contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists 
only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous 
consent of the parties sharing control. 
UPM’s share in joint operations is recognized in the consolidated 
balance sheet through recognition of the Group’s own assets and 
liabilities and revenues and expenses in the arrangement together 
with UPM’s proportionate share in the joint assets, liabilities and joint 
income and expenses. The proportionate share of realized and unrealized 
gains and losses arising from intragroup transactions between UPM and 
its joint operations is eliminated.
Associates and joint ventures
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but 
no control. Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial 
and operating policy decisions without the power to control or jointly 
control those policies. Joint ventures are joint arrangements where the 
Group has joint control with other parties and the parties have rights to 
the arrangement’s net assets.
Interests in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using 
the equity method of accounting and are initially recognized at cost. 
Associates and joint ventures follow the Group accounting policies for 
consolidation purpose.
Non-controlling interests
The profit or loss attributable to owners of the parent company and non-
controlling interests is presented on the face of the income statement. 
Non-controlling interests are presented in the consolidated balance sheet 
within equity, separately from equity attributable to owners of the parent 
company.
Transactions with non-controlling interests are treated as transactions 
with equity owners of the Group. For purchases from non-controlling 
interests, the difference between consideration paid and the acquired 
share of the carrying value of the subsidiary’s net assets is recorded in 
equity. Gains or losses of disposals to non-controlling interests are also 
recorded in equity, net of transaction costs.
1.4 Foreign currency translation
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency 
using the exchange rate prevailing at the date of transaction. Receivables 
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies outstanding on the 
balance sheet date are translated into the functional currency using the 
balance sheet date exchange rate. Foreign exchange gains and losses 
resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the 
translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are recognized in the income 
statement, except when recognized in other comprehensive income as 
qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
UPM records foreign exchange differences relating to ordinary 
business operations within the appropriate line items above operating 
profit and those relating to financial items are presented separately as a 
net amount in finance costs.
Income and expenses of subsidiaries that have a functional currency 
different from euro are translated into euros at monthly average exchange 
rates. Assets and liabilities of subsidiaries are translated at the closing rate 
at the balance sheet date. All resulting translation differences are 
recognized as a separate component in other comprehensive income. On 
consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of net 
investment in foreign operations and other currency instruments 
designated as hedges of such investments, are recognized in other 
comprehensive income. When a foreign entity is partially disposed of, sold 
or liquidated, translation differences accrued in equity are recognized in 
the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale/liquidation.
UPM Financial Report 2025 267
UPM Annual Report 2025266 267
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

1.5 Changes in accounting policies
The Group has reviewed IFRS Accounting Standard amendments 
effective on periods starting January 1, 2025. The amendments as of 
January 1, 2025, did not have any impacts on the Group's financial 
statements.
Amendments to IAS 21 - Lack of Exchangeability
On January 1, 2025, the Group implemented the amendments to IAS 21 
The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates. The Group has assessed 
the impact of implementation of amendments to IAS 21 and concluded 
that it has no effect on the Group financial statements as of January 1, 
2025.
UPM Financial Report 2025 268
2. Business performance
Sales Comparable EBIT Comparable ROE
€ 9,656 m € 921 m 6.5 %
(€10,339m) (€1,224m) (8.3%)
2.1 Business areas
UPM business portfolio consist of six competitive businesses with strong 
market positions. UPM reports financial information for the following 
business areas (segments): UPM Fibres, UPM Energy, UPM Adhesive 
Materials, UPM Specialty Papers, UPM Communication Papers, 
UPM Plywood and Other operations. UPM has production plants in 10 
countries. The Group’s most important markets are Europe, North 
America and Asia.
Accounting policies
UPM business areas are reported consistently, with the internal reporting 
provided to UPM’s President and CEO who is responsible for allocating 
resources and assessing performance of the business areas. Internal 
reporting is prepared under the same basis as the consolidated accounts. 
Costs, revenues, assets and liabilities are allocated to business areas on a 
consistent basis. The sales transactions between business areas are 
based on market prices, and they are eliminated on consolidation.
Comparable ROCE, %
2024 2025
UPM FibresUPM Energy
UPM Adhesive MaterialsUPM Specialty Papers
UPM Communication Papers
UPM Plywood
0
5
10
15
20
25
Comparable EBIT,  € million
2024 2025
UPM FibresUPM Energy
UPM Adhesive MaterialsUPM Specialty Papers
UPM Communication Papers
UPM Plywood
Other Operations
0
200
400
600
Capital employed 31 Dec 2025
€14,129 million
UPM Fibres 45%
UPM Energy 17%
UPM Adhesive 
Materials 6%
UPM Specialty Papers 5%
UPM 
Communication 
Papers 6%
UPM Plywood 2%
Other operations 23%
UPM Financial Report 2025 269
UPM Annual Report 2025268 269
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

 
The goods and services included in sales revenue of each business area are presented in below table:
Business area Description and products
UPM Fibres UPM Fibres consists of UPM Pulp and UPM Timber business units.
UPM Pulp offers a versatile range of responsibly-produced pulp grades suitable for a wide range of end-uses such as tissue, specialty and 
packaging papers, graphic papers and board. 
UPM Timber offers certified sawn timber for joinery, packaging, furniture, planing and construction end-use segments. 
UPM Energy UPM Energy generates cost-competitive, zero-carbon electricity. Operations also include physical electricity and financial portfolio 
management as well as services to industrial electricity consumers and producers. 
UPM Adhesive Materials UPM Adhesive Materials offers innovative and sustainable self-adhesive label materials for branding and promotion, information and 
functional labeling in the food, beverage, personal care, pharmaceutical and logistics segments, for example. 
UPM Specialty Papers UPM Specialty Papers offers labeling and packaging materials as well as office and graphic papers for labeling, commercial siliconizing, 
packaging, office use and printing.
UPM Communication 
Papers
UPM Communication Papers offers an extensive product range of sustainably produced graphic papers for advertising and publishing as 
well as home and office uses. 
UPM Plywood UPM Plywood offers high quality WISA® plywood and veneer products for construction, vehicle flooring, LNG shipbuilding, parquet 
manufacturing and other industrial applications. 
Other operations Other operations include UPM Forest, UPM Biofuels and UPM Biochemicals business units as well as biofuels development and Group 
services.
UPM Forest secures competitive wood and biomass for UPM businesses and manages UPM-owned and privately-owned forests in North 
Europe. In addition, UPM offers forestry services to forest owners and forest investors.  
UPM Biofuels produces wood-based renewable diesel for all diesel engines and renewable naphtha that can be used as a biocomponent for 
gasoline or for replacing fossil raw materials in the petrochemical industry.
UPM Biochemicals offers innovative wood-based biochemicals for replacing fossil-based raw materials in various applications such as 
textiles, PET bottles, packaging, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, detergents, rubbers and resins.  
Key performance indicators and financial targets
UPM aims to grow its comparable EBIT over the long term. The Group 
has a portfolio of five businesses that operate on growing markets and 
one business that faces declining demand. All of UPM's businesses are 
competitive and have strong market positions. Financial target setting, 
follow up and allocation of resources in the Group’s performance 
management process is mainly based on the business area comparable 
EBIT and comparable ROCE.
UPM presents comparable performance measures to reflect the 
underlying business performance and to enhance comparability 
from period to period. However, the comparable performance measures 
used by management should not be considered in isolation as a 
substitute for measures of performance in accordance with IFRS. 
Business area information including description of items affecting 
comparability is presented below.
UPM Financial Report 2025 270
Business area information for the year ended  December 31, 2025
€ million, or as indicated UPM Fibres
UPM 
Energy
UPM 
Adhesive 
Materials
UPM 
Specialty 
papers
UPM Com 
papers
UPM 
Plywood
Other 
operations
Eliminati-
ons and 
reconcili-
ations 2) Group
External sales  2,908  480  1,655  1,108  2,459  389  659  -2  9,656 
Internal sales  499  136  —  206  34  20  34  -930  — 
Total sales  3,407  615  1,655  1,315  2,493  409  693  -932  9,656 
Comparable EBIT  283  151  124  147  181  35  9  -10  921 
Items affecting comparability in 
operating profit  0  —  -70  -3  -75  -4  -17  -1  -171 
Operating profit  282  151  53  144  107  31  -8  -11  749 
Finance costs, net  -59 
Income taxes  -200 
Profit for the period  491 
Operating assets 1)  6,662  2,486  1,003  891  1,206  265  3,576  -244  15,845 
Deferred tax assets  413 
Other non-operating assets  58 
Other financial assets  1,216 
Total assets  17,532 
Operating liabilities 1)  315  56  160  219  315  37  380  -230  1,252 
Deferred tax liabilities  692 
Other liabilities  565 
Other financial liabilities  4,688 
Total liabilities  7,197 
Other items
Change in fair value of forest 
assets and wood harvested  65  —  —  —  —  —  80  —  144 
Share of results of associates 
and joint ventures  2  —  —  —  0  —  -2  —  0 
Depreciation and amortization  -294  -7  -52  -59  -65  -20  -43  —  -541 
Impairment charges  0  —  -9  2  -44  0  -3  —  -53 
Capital employed, December 31  6,348  2,430  843  672  891  228  3,196  -478  14,129 
Average capital employed  6,745  2,603  860  706  1,018  230  3,112  -484  14,791 
Capital expenditure  93  11  198  24  31  8  257  —  621 
Capital expenditure, excluding 
acquisitions and shares  62  11  27  24  30  8  247  —  409 
Comparable ROCE, %  4.2  5.8  14.4  20.9  17.8  15.4  0.3  —  6.7 
Personnel, December 31  2,653  86  3,287  1,820  4,728  1,542  1,011  —  15,127 
1) Business area’s operating assets include goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, leased assets, forest assets, financial assets at FVOCI, investments in associates 
and joint ventures, inventories and trade receivables. Operating liabilities include trade payables and advances received.
2) Eliminations and reconciliations include the elimination of internal sales and internal inventory margin and the changes in fair value of unrealized cash flow and commodity hedges that are 
not allocated to segments.
Refer to » Other financial information on Alternative performance measures, for definitions of key figures and reconciliation to measures presented in the consolidated income statement and 
balance sheet prepared in accordance with IFRS Accounting Standards.
UPM Financial Report 2025 271
UPM Annual Report 2025270 271
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

Business area information for the year ended December 31, 2024
€ million, or as indicated UPM Fibres
UPM 
Energy
UPM 
Adhesive 
Materials
UPM 
Specialty 
papers
UPM Com 
papers
UPM 
Plywood
Other 
operations
Eliminati-
ons and 
reconcili-
ations 2) Group
External sales  3,108  487  1,562  1,272  2,920  409  582  -1  10,339 
Internal sales  621  139  —  195  33  21  40  -1,049  — 
Total sales  3,728  627  1,562  1,467  2,953  430  623  -1,051  10,339 
Comparable EBIT  533  181  132  135  273  42  -52  -20  1,224 
Items affecting comparability in 
operating profit  -114  —  -44  -3  -83  0  -382  7  -620 
Operating profit  419  181  88  132  190  42  -434  -13  604 
Finance costs, net  -104 
Income taxes  -37 
Profit for the period  463 
Operating assets 1)  7,772  2,562  862  1,036  1,500  275  3,331  -332  17,005 
Deferred tax assets  526 
Other non-operating assets  62 
Other financial assets  1,502 
Total assets  19,096 
Operating liabilities 1)  422  34  149  274  376  34  394  -308  1,375 
Deferred tax liabilities  673 
Other liabilities  603 
Other financial liabilities  4,906 
Total liabilities  7,556 
Other items
Change in fair value of forest 
assets and wood harvested  11  —  —  —  —  —  68  —  80 
Share of results of associates 
and joint ventures  2  —  —  —  —  —  -1  —  1 
Depreciation and amortization  -316  -7  -45  -71  -68  -23  -47  —  -576 
Impairment charges  -121  —  -26  -2  -32  —  -380  —  -562 
Capital employed, December 31  7,350  2,527  713  762  1,125  241  2,937  -201  15,452 
Average capital employed  7,153  2,426  722  789  1,151  243  3,129  -428  15,184 
Capital expenditure  93  4  46  19  37  16  335  —  550 
Capital expenditure, excluding 
acquisitions and shares  93  4  23  19  37  16  335  —  527 
Comparable ROCE, %  7.5  7.5  18.3  17.1  23.8  17.1  -1.7  —  8.2 
Personnel, December 31  2,740  91  3,224  1,945  5,190  1,598  1,039  —  15,827 
1) Business area’s operating assets include goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, leased assets, forest assets, financial assets at FVOCI, investments in associates 
and joint ventures, inventories and trade receivables. Operating liabilities include trade payables and advances received.
2) Eliminations and reconciliations include the elimination of internal sales and the changes in fair value of unrealized cash flow and commodity hedges that are not allocated to segments.
Refer to » Other financial information on Alternative performance measures, for definitions of key figures and reconciliation to measures presented in the consolidated income statement and 
balance sheet prepared in accordance with IFRS Accounting Standards.
UPM Financial Report 2025 272
 Items affecting comparability
€ million 2025 2024
In operating profit
Impairment charges  -59  -549 
Restructuring charges  -151  -103 
Change in fair value of unrealized cash flow and 
commodity hedges  -1  7 
Capital gains and losses on sale of non-current 
assets  55  29 
Other non-operational items  -15  -4 
Total  -171  -620 
In finance costs  -1  -3 
Total in profit before tax  -173  -623 
In income taxes 
Taxes related to items affecting comparability  13  133 
Changes in tax rates  -65  — 
Total  -51  133 
Total in profit for the period  -224  -490 
In 2025, items affecting comparability include €52 million restructuring 
and impairment charges related to the closure of Ettringen paper mill in 
Germany, €72 million restructuring and impairment charges of fixed 
assets related to the closure of Kaukas paper machine 1 in Finland, €14 
million reversal of restructuring charges related to the closure of Plattling 
paper mill in 2023, €9 million restructuring charges in UPM 
Communication Papers to improve mills' operations' efficiency, €8 million 
restructuring and impairment charges resulting from the exercise of a put 
option concerning the Kraftwerk Plattling power plant company in UPM 
Communication Papers, €28 million restructuring charges related to the 
discontinuation of label materials' production at Nancy factory in France, 
€30 million restructuring charges to improve operations' competitiveness 
and efficiency in UPM Adhesive Materials, €6 million addition to 
impairment charges and €2 million reversal of restructuring charges 
related to the closure of Kaltenkirchen factory, €2 million restructuring 
charges related to discontinuation of Rotterdam refinery project, €4 
million restructuring and impairment charges related to the closure of the 
UPM Biomedicals business in Other operations, €46 million capital gain 
on sale of Plattling paper mill site, €7 million capital gain on sale of non-
current assets. Additionally, items affecting comparability include other 
restructuring charges related to UPM Communication Papers, UPM 
Specialty Papers, UPM Adhesive Materials, UPM Plywood, UPM Fibres and 
Other operations. Other non-operational items include acquisition 
charges related to Metamark acquisition and charges related to strategic 
review of UPM Plywood Business Area and to the announced non-binding 
joint venture transaction between Sappi and UPM in the graphic paper 
business. Items affecting comparability in taxes include €65 million 
impact of the future corporate income tax rate change in Germany. The 
legislation was enacted in 2025. 
In 2024, items affecting comparability included €373 million 
impairment on assets in Biochemicals refinery in Leuna, €5 million 
impairment of UPM Biochemicals goodwill, and €113 million impairment 
of Pulp operations Finland goodwill. Other items affecting comparability 
included €10 million restructuring charges and €26 million impairment 
charges of fixed assets related to closure of UPM Adhesive Materials' 
Kaltenkirchen factory in Germany, €40 million of restructuring and 
impairment charges related to the closure of Hürth newsprint mill in 
Germany, €54 million restructuring and impairment charges related to 
the closure of Nordland fine paper machine 3 in Germany, €4 million write 
down of inventory at the UPM Adhesive Materials' mill, located in Western 
North Carolina, U.S., which was impacted by Hurricane Helene, €12 million 
restructuring and impairment charges related to the closure of the UPM 
Biocomposites business, a €21 million capital gain on the sale of UPM-
Kymmene Austria GmbH to HEINZEL GROUP, €9 million capital gain on 
the sale of other non-current assets, €12 million other restructuring costs 
and €8 million restructuring costs related to prior capacity closures. 
Accounting policies
Certain non-operational or non-cash valuation transactions with 
significant income statement impact are considered as items affecting 
comparability and reported separately to reflect the underlying business 
performance and to enhance comparability from period to period. The 
Group applies relevant IFRS Accounting Standards to such transactions. 
Transactions (incomes or expenses) are considered to be significant, 
hence reported as items affecting comparability, in all business areas if the 
impact exceeds €1 million pre-tax. In addition, business acquisition costs  
are classified as items affecting comparability regardless of amount. 
Total assets and capital expenditure by country
Assets Capital expenditure
€ million 2025 2024 2025 2024
Finland  8,102  8,776  258  100 
Germany  2,158  2,128  242  335 
Uruguay  5,437  6,213  24  58 
China  453  603  7  6 
United States  516  554  8  16 
United Kingdom  187  111  65  3 
Malaysia  24  22  3  0 
Poland  137  135  2  2 
Estonia  45  51  1  4 
Other EU countries  111  113  9  24 
Other European countries  39  36  0  0 
Rest of the world  323  355  1  2 
Total  17,532  19,096  621  550 
UPM Financial Report 2025 273
UPM Annual Report 2025272 273
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

Sales by destination country
€ million 2025 2024
Finland  1,350  1,306 
Germany  899  1,073 
United States  1,263  1,408 
United Kingdom  506  513 
China  1,515  1,744 
France  356  386 
Uruguay  99  100 
Poland  288  304 
Other EU countries  1,604  1,577 
Other European countries  346  402 
Rest of world  1,430  1,527 
Total  9,656  10,339 
2.2 Sales
UPM generates revenue mainly from the sale of goods, i.e. several types of 
products.
The majority of UPM’s revenue comes from sales of graphic and 
specialty papers to publishers, retailers, printing houses, merchants and 
distributors, converters and label stock manufacturers; sales of self-
adhesive label materials to label printers and brand owners and sales of 
pulp products to tissue, board, specialty and graphic paper producers. The 
revenue comprises also sales of energy, biofuels, sawn timber and plywood 
products and a very limited amount of services not related to sale of goods.
UPM sells a proportion of its products to several major customers. The 
largest customer in terms of sales represented approximately 3% (2%) of 
UPM’s sales and the ten largest customers represented approximately 
12% (13%) of such sales.
The Group disaggregates its external sales by business area, because 
this depicts how the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue 
and cash flows are affected by economic factors. Sales by UPM business 
areas are reported consistently, with the internal reporting provided to 
UPM’s President and CEO who is responsible for allocating resources and 
assessing performance of the business areas. The goods and services 
included in sales revenue of each business area are presented in below 
tables.
Refer to » Note 2.1 Business areas for information on UPM products.
Sales by business area
€ million 2025 2024 Change %
UPM Fibres  3,407  3,728  - 9   %
UPM Energy  615  627  - 2   %
UPM Adhesive Materials  1,655  1,562  6   %
UPM Specialty Papers  1,315  1,467  - 1 0   %
UPM Communication Papers  2,493  2,953  -16  %
UPM Plywood  409  430  - 5   %
Other operations  693  623  11  %
Eliminations  -932  -1,051  —  
Total  9,656  10,339  - 7   %
UPM Financial Report 2025 274
External sales by major products
Business area Business 2025 2024
€ million
UPM Fibres UPM Pulp, UPM Timber  2,908  3,108 
UPM Energy UPM Energy  480  487 
UPM Adhesive Materials UPM Adhesive Materials  1,655  1,562 
UPM Specialty Papers UPM Specialty Papers  1,108  1,272 
UPM Communication Papers UPM Communication Papers  2,459  2,920 
UPM Plywood UPM Plywood  389  409 
Other operations UPM Forest, UPM Biofuels, UPM Biochemicals  659  582 
Eliminations and reconciliations  -2  -1 
Total  9,656  10,339 
BUSINESS PRODUCT RANGE
UPM Pulp Softwood, birch and eucalyptus pulp
UPM Timber Standard and special sawn timber
UPM Energy Electricity and related services
UPM Adhesive Materials Self-adhesive paper and film label stock
UPM Specialty Papers Labeling materials, release base papers, flexible packaging materials, office papers, graphic papers
UPM Communication Papers Graphic papers for various end-uses
UPM Plywood Plywood and veneer products
UPM Forest Wood and wood-based biomass (logs, pulpwood, chips, forest residues etc.), full forestry service offering
UPM Biofuels Wood-based renewable diesel for transport and renewable naphtha for transport and petrochemicals
UPM Biochemicals Lignin products for industrial use
Accounting policies
Sales of goods
UPM’s performance obligation in the contracts with customers consists of 
providing the goods specified in the contracts. Revenue from UPM’s 
product sales is recognized when performance obligation is satisfied, which 
takes place at a point in time when control of the goods has been 
transferred to the customer. In UPM’s customer contracts the transfer of 
control and thus timing of revenue recognition is largely dependent on 
delivery terms. Group terms of delivery are based on Incoterms 2020, the 
official rules for interpretation of trade terms issued by the International 
Chamber of Commerce. A major part of the sales contracts is on delivery 
terms basis, whereby delivery is not a promised service to the customer, as 
the control of a good does not transfer to the customer before shipment. 
Revenue and the corresponding receivable are recorded at the point in time 
when the product is delivered to the destination point for terms designated 
Delivered Duty Paid (“DDP”) or Delivered at Place (“DAP”). For sales 
transactions designated free of carriage (FCA), revenue is recorded at the 
time of shipment. For sales transactions designated as Carriage paid to 
(CPT) or Carriage and Insurance Paid to (CIP), the portion of revenue 
relating to goods is recorded at the time of loading and the portion of 
revenue relating to delivery services over time when the service has been 
performed.
UPM sells energy to NordPool electricity market. Revenue is recognized 
when electricity is transmitted over time.
Sales of services
UPM provides forest expertise and contracting services to woodland and 
forestry owners and freight services (free space on Group’s vessels sold as 
freight services). Revenues from services are recorded over time when the 
service has been performed. Sales of services is very limited and thus the 
Group does not report it separately.
Revenue recognition
The Group recognizes revenue as an amount equal to the price specified 
in the customer contract net of any sales taxes, cash flow hedging results 
of sales in foreign currency, hedges of energy sales and variable 
consideration, when applicable. Variable consideration is defined as any 
UPM Financial Report 2025 275
UPM Annual Report 2025274 275
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

variability that may occur between the sales price and the amount UPM 
expects to receive. The variable consideration includes mainly cash 
discounts and volume rebates that encourage the customer to take 
specific volumes in a given timescale. In addition, the Group gives the 
customers the right for purchase price refund in case the products do not 
meet the quality as specified in the agreement. The amount of variable 
consideration is recognized as a refund liability when some of the amount 
received is expected to be refunded to the customer. Customer rebates 
payable to customers in relation to sales made until the end of the 
reporting period and expected quality claims are estimated using the 
expected value method, and revenue is only recognized to the extent that 
it is highly probable that a significant reversal will not occur. A refund 
liability is included in trade and other payables.
Receivables are recognized when the goods are delivered, and the 
consideration is unconditional except for the passage of time. For most of 
UPM’s customer contracts the period between the transfer of goods or 
services to customers and the receipt of payment is less than 12 months. 
For these contracts the Group has elected to use the practical expedient 
not to adjust revenue for the effect of financing components.
Advance payments received from customers are recognized as 
contract liability. UPM does not have any contract assets arising from 
contracts with customers.
Refer to » Note 4.6 Working capital for information on contract liabilities 
and refund liabilities.
2.3 Operating expenses and
other operating income
Operating expenses
Operating expenses excluding forest assets fair value change, wood 
harvested and share of results of associates and joint ventures are 
presented below.
€ million 2025 2024
Costs and expenses
Raw materials, consumables and goods  5,194  5,236 
Employee costs 1)  1,155  1,179 
Other operating costs and expenses 2)  1,043  1,083 
Delivery costs and other external charges  1,239  1,308 
Total  8,630  8,806 
1) Refer to » Note 3 Employee rewards, for further information.
2) Distribution of other operating costs and expenses
€ million 2025 2024
Rents and lease expenses  19  21 
Emission expenses 1)  5  64 
Losses on sale of non-current assets  1  0 
Credit losses  1  10 
Maintenance and other operating expenses 2)  1,016  988 
Total  1,043  1,083 
1) Emission expenses include gains on sales of emission rights €48 million (€2 million).
2) Other operating expenses include expenses related to services and Group’s administration.
Cost structure 2025
€8,630  million
Delivery of own 
products 10%
Wood and fibre 27%
Energy 9%Fillers, coating 
and chemicals 
9%
Other variable 
costs 18%
Employee costs 13%
Other fixed costs 12%
Cost structure 2024
€8,806 million
Delivery of own 
products 11%
Wood and fibre 28%
Energy 9%Fillers, coating 
and chemicals 
10%
Other variable 
costs 16%
Employee costs 13%
Other fixed costs 12%
UPM Financial Report 2025 276
Auditor’s fees
€ million 2025 2024
Audit fee  4.7  4.5 
Audit related services
    Sustainability Statement assurance  0.4  0.3 
    Other audit-related services  0.1  0.3 
Tax services  0.6  0.6 
Other services  0.4  0.1 
Total  6.2  5.8 
In 2025, auditor's fees include €0.5 million (0.6) related to audit-related 
services, €0.6 million (0.4) related to tax services and €0.4 million related 
to other services (0.1) paid to Ernst & Young Oy. 
Research and development costs
The research and development costs included in operating expenses were 
€60 million (€70 million) in 2025. The focus was on new technologies and 
developing businesses.
Government grants
In 2025, government grants recognized as deduction of operating 
expenses totaled to €32 million (€31 million) of which €31 million 
(€31 million) relates to Finland. In addition, the Group received emission 
rights from governments amounting to €101 million (€92 million) of which 
€61 million (€40 million) relates to Finland, €33 million (€40 million) to 
Germany, €5 million (€10 million) to China and €2 million (€2 million) to 
UK.
In addition, the company receives electricity price compensation in 
Germany and Finland. The Group considers that the conditions related to 
subsidies have been met. Accordingly, the subsidies have been recorded 
as income for the period when the subsidy has been received. The 
authorities monitor the use of subsidies afterwards.
Other operating income
€ million 2025 2024
Gains on sale of non-current assets  57  31 
Rental income  10  9 
Emission rights received  101  92 
Derivatives, non-qualifying hedges  18  -25 
Exchange rate gains and losses  -37  -9 
Other  26  31 
Total  174  130 
Emission rights
The Group has recognized €101 million (€92 million) of income in Other 
operating income and €5 million of expense (€64 million) under Other 
operating costs and expenses relating to CO2 emissions. The liability to 
cover the obligation to return emission rights amounted to €63 million 
(€66 million) and is recognized in provisions. The emission rights 
recognized in intangible assets are specified below.
€ million 2025 2024
Carrying value, at January 1  264  256 
Emission rights received and purchased  160  96 
Deliveries and disposals  -230  -84 
Impairment  8  -5 
Translation differences  -1  — 
Carrying value, at December 31  201  264 
Accumulated costs  201  272 
Accumulated impairments  —  -8 
Carrying value, at December 31  201  264 
UPM Financial Report 2025 277
UPM Annual Report 2025276 277
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

Accounting policies
Research and development costs
Research and development costs are expensed as incurred, except for 
certain development costs, which are capitalized as they generate future 
economic benefits, and UPM can the measure the cost reliably. 
Capitalized development costs are amortized on a systematic basis over 
their expected useful lives, usually not exceeding five years. 
Government grants 
Government grants are recognized at fair value where there is a 
reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and the Group will 
comply with the attached conditions. Government grants relating to the 
purchase of property, plant and equipment are deducted from the 
acquisition cost of the asset and accordingly directly reduce the annual 
depreciation of the underlying asset. Other government grants are 
recognized in the income statement in the period necessary to match 
them with the costs they are intended to compensate. A government 
grant can also become receivable by the Group as compensation for 
expenses incurred in a previous period. Such a grant is recognized in profit 
or loss of the period in which it becomes receivable.
Other operating income 
Other operating income mainly includes emission rights received from 
governments, gains on disposal of non-current assets and rental income. 
Further, other operating income includes foreign exchange gains and 
losses in respect of UPM’s normal business activities. Gains and losses on 
derivatives not qualifying hedge accounting are also recognized in other 
operating income.
Emission rights 
The Group participates in the European Emissions Trading Scheme 
aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, the Group 
participates in the Chinese national emissions trading scheme. Emission 
rights received from governments free of charge to emit a fixed tonnage of 
carbon dioxide in a fixed period of time give rise to an intangible asset for 
the emission rights, a government grant and a liability for the obligation to 
deliver emission rights equal to the emissions that have been made during 
the compliance period.
Emission rights are initially recognized as intangible assets based on 
market value at the date of initial recognition. Emission rights are not 
amortized. If the market price of emissions rights at the balance sheet 
date is less than the recognized costs, any surplus emission rights that are 
not required to cover actual and estimated emissions during the financial 
year, are impaired to the market price.
Government grants are recognized as deferred income in the balance 
sheet at the same time as emission rights and are recognized in other 
operating income in the income statement, systematically, over the 
compliance period to which the corresponding emission rights relate. 
The liability to deliver emission rights is recognized based on actual 
emissions. The emissions realized are expensed under other operating 
costs and expenses in the income statement and presented as a 
provision in the balance sheet. The liability is settled using emission rights 
on hand, measured at the carrying amount of those emission rights. 
Emission rights and associated provisions are derecognized when 
disposed. Any profit or loss represents the costs of purchasing additional 
rights to cover excess emissions, the sale of unused rights in the case 
realized emission are under emission rights received free of charge or the 
impairment of unused emission rights. 
2.4 Earnings per share and dividend
 According to UPM dividend policy, the company aims to pay attractive 
dividends, targeting at least half of the comparable earnings per share 
over time.
The dividend paid in 2025 was €792 million (€1.50 per share) which 
was 59% of the operating cash flow per share in 2024 and the dividend 
paid in 2024 €800 million (€1.50 per share). The Board of Directors 
proposes to the Annual General Meeting that a dividend of €791 million, 
€1.50 per share, will be paid in respect of 2025. The proposed dividend 
represents 113% of UPM's comparable earnings per share for the year 
2025.
Earnings per share
€ million 2025 2024
Profit attributable to owners of the parent 
company, € million  480  436 
Weighted average no. of shares (1,000)  528,554  533,324 
Basic earnings per share, €  0.91 0.82
Diluted earnings per share, €  0.91 0.82
Accounting policies
Earnings per share
Earnings per share (EPS) is the amount of profit for the period attributable 
to each share. The basic earnings per share are computed using the 
weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period. Diluted 
earnings per share are computed using the weighted average number of 
shares outstanding during the period plus the dilutive effect of share 
options. The Group did not have share-option schemes at the end of 2025 
and 2024.
Dividend
Dividend distribution to the owners of the parent company is recognized 
as a liability in the Group’s consolidated financial statements in the period 
in which the dividends are approved by the parent company’s 
shareholders.
UPM Financial Report 2025 278
3. Employee rewards
3.1 Employee costs
€ million 2025 2024
Salaries and fees  930  937 
Share-based payments  11  16 
Pension and other post-employment benefits, 
defined benefit plans  17  19 
Pension costs, defined contribution plans  98  101 
Other indirect employee costs 1)  100  106 
Total  1,155  1,179 
1) Other indirect employee expenses primarily include other statutory social expenses, 
excluding pension expenses.
3.2 Key management personnel
The remuneration of the Chair of the Board of Directors was resolved to 
be raised so that the Chair of the Board was paid an annual base fee of 
€240,000, the Deputy Chair of the Board €150,000 and the other 
members of the Board €120,000.
 The annual base fee was paid in company shares and cash so that 
approximately 40% of the fee was paid in the company shares purchased 
on the Board members’ behalf, and the rest in cash. The company paid 
any costs and transfer tax related to the purchase of the company shares. 
The remuneration of the Audit Committee was resolved to be raised 
and other annual committee fees remained unchanged. The Chair of 
Audit Committee received annual committee fee of €50,000, the Chair of 
Nomination and Governance Committee €20,000 and the Chair of 
Remuneration Committee €27,500. The members of the Audit 
Committee received an annual committee fee of €30,000 and members 
of other committees €10,000. The annual committee fees were paid in 
cash. 
In 2025, 4,170 (2,816) company shares were purchased to the Chair, 
2,606 (1,767) to the Deputy Chair and 2,085 (1,462) to other members of the 
Board.
Shareholdings (no. of shares) and fees of the Board of Directors
Shareholdings December 31 Annual base fee (€ 1,000)
Annual committee fee
(€ 1,000)
2025 2024 2025 2024 2025 2024
Board members
Henrik Ehrnrooth, Chair  34,474  30,304  240  231  20  20 
Kim Wahl, Deputy Chair  32,335  29,729  150  145  10  10 
Pia Aaltonen-Forsell  5,213  3,128  120  120  50  45 
Melanie Maas-Brunner  3,547  1,462  120  120  10  10 
Jari Gustafsson  8,049  5,964  120  120  30  25 
Piia-Noora Kauppi  29,248  27,163  120  120  10  10 
Topi Manner  10,014  7,929  120  120  10  10 
Marjan Oudeman  14,807  12,722  120  120  30  25 
Martin à Porta  30,057  27,972  120  120  28  28 
Total  167,744  146,373  1,230  1,216  198  183 
UPM Financial Report 2025 279
UPM Annual Report 2025278 279
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

Salaries and benefits paid to the President and CEO and the Group Executive Team
President and CEO Other members of Group Executive Team 1)
€ 1,000 2025 2024 2025 2024
Salaries  927  894  3,837  3,736 
Short-term incentives  261  363  969  996 
Share rewards  169  125  2,562  2,871 
Benefits  30  36  143  146 
Total  1,387  1,418  7,511  7,748 
1) Group Executive Team was composed of 9-10 members in addition to CEO during 2025 and 2024. 
Massimo Reynaudo has served as the President and CEO of UPM-
Kymmene Corporation as of January 1, 2024. Jussi Pesonen continued as 
the President and CEO until December 31, 2023, after which he worked as 
an advisor to the company and its management until he retired from 
UPM on April 30, 2024.
In 2025, cost under the Finnish statutory pension scheme for the 
President and CEO amounted to €207,000 (220,000) and payment 
under the voluntary pension plan amounted to €190,000 (190,000).
In 2025, costs under the Finnish and German statutory pension 
schemes for Group Executive Team (GET) members (excluding the 
President and CEO) amounted to €744,000 (731,000) and payments 
under the voluntary pension plan amounted to €551,000 (671,000).
The remuneration of the President and CEO and other members of 
the Group Executive Team consists of the base salary and benefits, short-
term incentive and long-term share-based incentive.
In 2025 and 2024, the short-term incentives were based on the 
company's Short-Term Incentive Plan and they are paid annually in cash. 
The amount of the incentive is linked to the executive's position and 
achievement of annually set targets. The maximum incentives amount to 
a total of 110% of the annual base salary to the Business Area Executives 
and to a total of 90% of annual base salary to the other members of the 
Group Executive Team. For the President and CEO, the maximum annual 
incentive amounts to 150% of the annual base salary. 
The expenses recognized in income statement in respect of share-
based payments for the Group Executive Team were €4.0 million (2.8 
million).
The President and CEO Massimo Reynaudo's retirement age is 65 
years. He has a voluntary pension benefit to supplement the Finnish 
statutory pension scheme (TyEL). The voluntary pension benefit is 
arranged through a defined contribution plan. The contribution equals to 
20% of the base salary. Should the company give notice of termination of 
the President and CEO Massimo Reynaudo's service agreement, 
severance pay of 12 months base salary will be paid in addition to the 
salary for the 12-month notice period. Should the President and CEO give 
notice of termination to the company, no severance pay will be paid in 
addition to the salary for the notice period.
The former President and CEO Jussi Pesonen had a voluntary pension 
benefit in addition to the Finnish statutory pension scheme. This voluntary 
pension benefit was arranged through a defined benefit plan until the end 
of November 2020. The last contribution to the defined benefit plan was 
made in 2020. The income of the former President and CEO Jussi 
Pesonen’s defined benefit pension plan in 2024 was €0.9 million. In 2024, 
the pension plan was fully settled, reducing both plan assets (€10.4 million 
in 2023) and obligations (€9.7 million in 2023) to €0 million. As of 
December 2020, the voluntary pension benefit was arranged through a 
defined contribution plan for the former President and CEO. 
The retirement age of other members of the Group Executive Team is 
65 or 63 for executives who have become Group Executive Team 
members before December 2023. They are covered by the statutory 
pension plan in the country of residence, supplemented by voluntary 
defined contribution pension plans.  Should the company give notice of 
termination for other GET member's service agreement, the period for 
severance pay is 12 months, in addition to the six months’ salary for the 
notice period, unless notice is given for reasons that are solely attributable 
to the executive. Should a GET member give notice of termination to the 
company, no severance pay will be paid in addition to the salary for the 
notice period.
If there is a change of control in the company, the President and CEO 
may terminate his service agreement within three months and other GET 
member within one month from closing the takeover and shall receive 
compensation equivalent to 24 months' base salary.
UPM Financial Report 2025 280
3.3 Share-based payments
UPM offers rewards and recognition with an emphasis on high 
performance. All UPM's employees belong to a unified annual Short- 
Term Incentive (STI) scheme. 
In addition, UPM has three long-term incentive schemes: the 
Performance Share Plan (PSP) for senior executives, the Deferred Bonus 
Plan (DBP) for other key employees and the Restricted Share Plan (RSP) 
for individually selected participants in specific recruitment and retention 
situations. 
Performance Share Plan
The Performance Share Plan (PSP) is targeted at the President and CEO 
and other Group Executive Team (GET) members as well as other 
selected members of the senior management. The performance 
measures for the PSP 2022–2024, PSP 2023–2025, PSP 2024-2026 and 
PSP 2025-2027 comprise the total shareholder return (80% weighting) 
during a three-year earning period and selected environmental, social and 
governance related (ESG) measures (20% weighting). Total shareholder 
return takes into account share price appreciation and paid dividends. In 
all plans, the earned shares are delivered after the three-year earning 
period has ended.
Performance Share Plans PSP 2022-2024 PSP 2023-2025 PSP 2024-2026 PSP 2025-2027
No. of participants at December 31, 2025  17  15  24  26 
Actual achievement  20 %  —  —  — 
Max no. of shares to be delivered 1)
to the President and CEO 6,000 29,000  72,952  75,530 
to other members of GET 30,100 146,000 204,000 276,000
to other selected members of management 21,100 75,000 144,000 175,000
Total max no. of shares to be delivered 57,200 250,000 420,952 526,530
Share delivery (year) 2025 2026 2027 2028
Earning criteria (weighting) Total shareholder 
return (80%)
ESG (20%) 2)
Total shareholder 
return (80%)
ESG (20%) 3)
Total shareholder 
return (80%)
ESG (20%) 4)
Total shareholder 
return (80%)
ESG (20%) 4)
1) For PSP 2022–2024, the gross number of shares actually earned.
2) ESG measures are reduction of fossil CO₂ emissions from UPM’s own combustion and purchased electricity by 65% by 2030 from 2015 level (10% weighting), achievement of a net positive 
impact on biodiversity in the company’s own forests in Finland (5% weighting) and achievement of gender pay equity (5% weighting). 
3) ESG measures are reduction of fossil CO2 emissions from UPM’s on-site combustion and purchased energy by 65% by 2030 from 2015 level (10% weighting), achievement of a net positive 
impact on biodiversity in the company’s own forests in Finland (5% weighting) and achievement of gender pay equity (5% weighting).
4) ESG measures are reduction of fossil CO₂ emissions from UPM’s on-site combustion and purchased energy, the achievement of a net positive impact on biodiversity in the company’s own 
forests in Finland and the achievement of gender pay equity globally.
Deferred Bonus Plan
The Deferred Bonus Plan (DBP) is targeted at other selected key 
employees and it consists of annually commencing plans. Each plan 
consists of a one-year earning period and a two-year restriction period. 
UPM shares are awarded based on achievement of Group or Group and 
business area EBITDA targets. Prior to share delivery, the share rewards 
earned are adjusted with dividends and other capital distributions, if any, 
paid to all shareholders during the restriction period. 
Deferred Bonus Plans DBP 2022 DBP 2023 DBP 2024 DBP 2025
No. of participants (at grant) 451 446 453 314
No. of participants (at December 31, 2025) 361 104 392 305
Max no. of shares to be delivered (at grant) 487,130 477,052 571,338 505,078
Estimated no. of shares to be delivered at December 31, 2025 1) 374,025 50,784 148,663 11,571
Share delivery (year) 2025 2026 2027 2028
Earning criteria Group/Business Area 
EBITDA
Group/Business Area 
EBITDA
Group/Business Area 
EBITDA
Group/Business Area 
EBITDA
1) For DBP 2022, the gross number of shares actually earned
UPM Financial Report 2025 281
UPM Annual Report 2025280 281
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

Restricted Share Plan
The Restricted Share Plan (RSP) is used as a commitment instrument for 
individually selected participants in specific recruitment and retention 
situations. The Restricted Share Plan is targeted at the President and 
CEO, the other Group Executive Team members and the other selected 
members of the senior management. The President and CEO is not 
eligible to receive a reward from this Plan for retention purposes. Each 
plan consists of a one-year grant period and a three-year vesting period 
during which share rewards are delivered in instalments to the 
participants. The first instalment of the reward shall be delivered no earlier 
than one year after the date the participant was nominated to the Plan. 
No earning criteria is applied to the Restricted Share Plan and the delivery 
of the share reward is subject to the continuation of the employment or 
service.
Restricted Share Plan RSP 2024-2027 RSP 2025-2028
No. of participants (at December 31, 2025) 10 3
Estimated no. of shares to be delivered at December 31,  2025 1) 150,892 130,000
Share delivery (year) 2025,2026,2027* 2027,2028*
1) Share delivery in annual instalments
The indicated actuals and estimates of the share rewards under the 
Performance Share Plan, the Deferred Bonus Plan and the Restricted 
Share Plan represent the gross amount of the rewards of which the 
applicable taxes will be deducted before the shares are delivered to the 
participants.
Employee Share Savings Plan
In 2025, UPM launched a voluntary employee share savings plan called 
MyShare for all UPM employees globally. Each plan consists of a 
three-year plan period, including a one-year savings period followed by a 
two-year holding period. The participants of the plan invest a part of their 
salary from the pay period in UPM shares during a one-year savings 
period. Shares are purchased quarterly after the release of the UPM 
interim report.
At the end of a savings period, first-time participants will receive 10 free 
shares (gross), provided that the participant has not stopped savings 
during the savings period and the participant's employment is still valid at 
the end of the savings period. After the holding period, participants will be 
granted one matching share for each two savings shares, provided that 
the savings shares have been retained throughout the holding period. 
For accounting purposes, the plan is treated as an equity-settled 
share-based payment and the costs of matching shares is recognized as 
an expense during a vesting period. A new three-year plan may be 
launched annually, with each plan subject to approval by UPM Board of 
Directors. 
Accounting policies
The Group’s long-term share incentive plans are recognized as equity-
settled or cash-settled share-based payment transactions depending on 
the settlement. The Group classifies the transactions with net settlement 
features for tax obligations as equity-settled in its entirety. Shares are 
valued using the market rate on the grant date. The settlement is a 
combination of shares and cash. The Group may obtain the necessary 
shares by using its treasury shares or may purchase shares from the 
market. Share deliveries are executed by using already existing shares 
and the plans, therefore, have no dilutive effect.
UPM Financial Report 2025 282
3.4 Retirement benefit obligations
The Group operates various pension schemes in accordance with local 
conditions and practices in the countries of operations. Retirement 
benefits are employee benefits that are payable usually after the 
termination of employment, such as pensions and post-employment 
medical care.
The pension plans are generally funded through payments to 
insurance companies or to trustee-administered funds or foundations 
and classified as defined contribution plans or defined benefit plans. 
Defined benefit assets and liabilities recognized in the balance sheet 
are presented below:
2025 2024
€ million Finland UK Germany
Other 
countries Total Finland UK Germany
Other 
countries Total
Present value of funded obligations  13  283  27  —  323  14  305  —  2  321 
Fair value of plan assets  -14  -266  -2  —  -281  -15  -275  -2  -2  -293 
Deficit (+)/surplus (–)  0  18  24  0  42  0  30  -2  0  28 
Present value of unfunded obligations  —  —  362  13  375  —  —  431  15  446 
Net defined benefit liability (+)/asset (–)  0  18  387  13  417  0  30  429  15  474 
Net retirement benefit asset in the balance sheet  —  —  —  —  —  1  —  —  —  1 
Net retirement benefit liability in the balance sheet 1)  0  18  387  13  415  0  30  429  15  475 
1) Net retirement benefit liability in the balance sheet includes other long-term employee benefits of €21 million (22 million) in 2025. 
UPM's most significant defined benefit arrangements are in the UK and in 
Germany. The Group has defined benefit obligations also in Finland, the 
Netherlands, France, Canada and in the US. 
In 2025, the defined benefit plan in the Netherlands was terminated due 
to local regulatory changes and the defined benefit plan was converted 
into a defined contribution plan reducing both plan assets (€2 million in 
2024) and obligations (€2 million) to €0 million. In 2024, one defined 
benefit plan in Finland was fully settled reducing both plan assets (€ 10.4 
million in 2023) and obligations (€ 9.7 million in 2023) to €0 million. 
Finland
In Finland, employers are obliged to insure their employees for statutory 
benefits, as determined in Employee’s Pension Act (TyEL). TyEL provides 
the employee with insurance protection for old age, disability and death. 
The Group's Finnish employees are mainly insured with an insurance 
company and these arrangements qualify as defined contributions plans.  
UK
In the UK, the Group operates a legacy defined benefit scheme providing 
benefits that are linked to the salary level near retirement age or an earlier 
date of leaving service. The scheme is closed both for new members and 
future accrual for old members. Part of the scheme is a defined 
contribution plan and is open to all current employees. The UK pension 
scheme operates under a single trust which is independent from the 
Group.
Germany
In Germany, employees within defined benefit arrangements are entitled 
to annual pensions on retirement based on their service and final salary. 
All significant defined benefit plans are closed for new employees.
UPM Financial Report 2025 283
UPM Annual Report 2025282 283
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

Present value of obligation and fair value of plan assets
Pension and other 
post-employment benefits 2025
Pension and other 
post-employment benefits 2024
€ million
Present value 
of obligation
Fair value of 
plan assets
Net defined 
benefit liability/ 
(Asset)
Present
value of 
obligation
Fair value of 
plan assets
Net defined 
benefit liability/ 
(Asset)
Carrying value, at January 1  767  -293  474  810  -327  484 
Current service cost  4  —  4  4  —  4 
Curtailments  -1  —  -1  —  —  — 
Gains and losses arising from settlements  -1  —  -1  -1  —  -1 
Interest expense (+) income (–)  30  -14  16  30  -14  16 
Total included in employee costs (Note 3.1)  31  -14  17  33  -14  19 
Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in 
demographic assumptions  1  —  1  -1  —  -1 
Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in 
financial assumptions  -37  —  -37  -28  —  -28 
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience 
adjustments  -9  —  -9  -12  —  -12 
Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in 
interest expense (+) income (–)  —  -5  -5  —  34  34 
Total remeasurement gains (–) and losses (+) 
included in other comprehensive income  -44  -5  -49  -41  34  -7 
Benefits paid  -41  36  -5  -52  52  — 
Settlements paid  -1  1  —  —  —  — 
Contributions by the employer  —  -19  -19  —  -24  -24 
Companies acquired  2  —  2  —  —  — 
Translation differences  -16  14  -3  16  -15  1 
Carrying value, at December 31  698  -281  417  767  -293  474 
Actuarial risks
Defined benefit plans typically expose the Group to the following actuarial 
risks:
Investment risk (asset volatility)
The Group is exposed to changes of assets’ values especially in the UK. 
The asset values of UK arrangements constitute 94% of total asset values 
in defined benefit plans within the Group.
Interest risk
Discount rates used in calculations are based on high-quality corporate 
bond yield curves in currency in which the benefits are paid. A decrease in 
the discount rate would increase the plan liabilities. The maturities of yields 
are reflecting the durations of the underlying obligations. The weighted 
average duration of Group’s defined benefit obligation is 12 years (13 
years) at the end of 2025.
Inflation risk
In the UK, the pensions in payment are tied to Retail Price Index whilst 
being tied to Consumer Price Index during deferment. An increase of 0.5% 
in indexes will increase the liabilities by approximately €11 million. 
In Germany the pensions have to be adjusted in accordance with the 
Consumer Price Index.
Salary risk
The present value of the net retirement benefit assets and liabilities is 
calculated by reference to the expected future salaries of plan 
participants. An increase in the salary of the plan participants would 
increase the plan liabilities. In the UK, the changes in salary levels have no 
impact on the funding position as all defined benefit arrangements in the 
UK are closed to future accrual. In Germany, an increase of 0.5% in 
expected future salaries would increase the obligation by €4 million.
Life expectancy
Adjustments in mortality assumption have an impact on the Group’s 
defined benefit obligation. An increase in life expectancy by one year will 
increase the obligation in the UK by €9 million and in Germany by €14 
million.
UPM Financial Report 2025 284
Key estimates and judgments
Several actuarial assumptions are used in calculating the expense 
and liability related to the defined benefit plans. Statistical information 
used may differ materially from actual results due to, among others, 
changing market and economic conditions, or changes in service period 
of plan participants. Significant differences in actual experience or 
significant changes in assumptions may affect the future amounts of the 
defined benefit obligation and future expense.
Actuarial assumptions
The weighted average principal assumptions used in the valuations of the defined benefit obligations are detailed below:
Finland UK Germany Other countries
2025 2024 2025 2024 2025 2024 2025 2024
Discount rate %  3.24  2.85  5.50  5.45  3.78  3.22  4.45  4.30 
Inflation rate %  1.88  1.90  2.95  3.20  2.00  2.00  2.00  2.02 
Rate of salary increase %  1.88  1.89  —  —  2.32  2.31  2.50  2.50 
Rate of pension increase %  —  —  2.90  3.10  2.00  2.31  —  2.50 
Expected average remaining working years of 
participants  —  —  7.6  8.3  7.0  7.8  8.2  8.6 
€ million 0.5% Increase 0.5% Decrease
2025 2024 2025 2024
Discount rate %  -39  -46  42  50 
Rate of salary increase %  4  5  -4  -5 
Rate of pension increase %  30  33  -28  -32 
Life expectancy +1 year  24  28  —  — 
A negative change indicates a decrease in the defined benefit obligation. A positive change 
indicates an increase in the defined benefit obligation.
Plan assets by categories at December 31
€ million 2025 2024
Quoted Unquoted Quoted Unquoted
Money market  37  1  49  — 
Debt instruments  96  44  131  9 
Equity instruments  —  61  50  — 
Property  —  10  —  21 
Assets held by insurance 
companies  —  14  —  14 
Other assets  —  18  —  19 
Total  133  148  230  63 
In 2025, plan assets include the company's ordinary shares with a fair value of €0 million (0 
million).
In 2026, contributions of €25 million are expected to be paid to Group’s 
defined benefit plans. In 2025, contributions of €19 million were paid to 
Group’s defined benefit plans.
Sensitivity analysis of defined benefit obligations
The sensitivity analysis shows the effect of the change in assumption. The 
analysis assume that all other assumptions remain unchanged. 
The projected unit credit method has been applied when calculating 
the obligation as well as these sensitivities.
Plan assets by categories 2025
Money market 13%
Debt instruments 50%
Equity instruments 22%
Property 4%
Assets held by 
insurance 
companies 5%
Other assets 6%
Plan assets by categories 2024
Money market 17%
Debt instruments 48%Equity instruments 17%
Property 7%
Assets held by 
insurance 
companies 5%
Other assets 6%
UPM Financial Report 2025 285
UPM Annual Report 2025284 285
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

Accounting policies
Defined benefit pension plans
Plan benefits depend on salary and length of service. The defined benefit 
obligations are calculated annually by independent actuaries using the 
projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit 
obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash 
outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are 
denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and that 
have terms to maturity approximating the term of the related pension 
liability. The liability recognized in the balance sheet in respect of defined 
benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation 
at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets. The cost of 
providing pensions is charged to the income statement as employee 
costs so as to spread the cost over the service lives of employees. 
Changes in actuarial assumptions and actuarial gains and losses arising 
from experience adjustments are charged or credited in other 
comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. Past service costs 
and gains or losses on settlement are recognized immediately in income 
when they occur.
Defined contribution plans
For defined contribution plans, contributions are paid to pension 
insurance companies. Once the contributions have been paid, there are 
no further payment obligations. Contributions to defined contribution 
plans are charged to the income statement in the period to which the 
contributions relate.
Other post-employment obligations
Some Group companies provide post-employment medical and other 
benefits to their retirees. The entitlement to healthcare benefits is usually 
conditional on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age and 
the completion of a minimum service period. The expected costs of these 
benefits are accrued over the period of employment, using an accounting 
methodology similar to that for defined benefit pension plans. Valuations 
of these obligations are carried out by independent qualified actuaries.
4. Capital employed
UPM’s capital employed primarily relates to its production facilities and 
both forest and energy assets. UPM aims to capture growth opportunities 
in its existing business portfolio and invest in projects with attractive and 
sustainable returns.
Capital employed
€ million 2025 2024
Property, plant and equipment  6,459  7,085 
Leased assets  778  847 
Forest assets  2,605  2,517 
Financial assets at FVOCI  2,193  2,247 
Goodwill and other intangible assets  818  754 
Operating working capital  1,714  2,161 
Provisions  -280  -253 
Net retirement benefit assets and liabilities  -438  -496 
Cash and cash equivalents  715  892 
Other assets and liabilities  -154  -154 
Net deferred tax assets and liabilities  -279  -146 
Assets classified as held for sale, net  —  — 
Total  14,129  15,452 
UPM Financial Report 2025 286
4.1 Property, plant and equipment
 
€ million
Land and 
water areas Buildings
Machinery 
and 
equipment
Other tangible 
assets
Construction 
in progress Total
2025
Accumulated costs  845  4,152  12,660  760  1,462  19,879 
Accumulated depreciation and impairments  —  -2,332  -10,110  -605  -373  -13,420 
Carrying value, at December 31  845  1,820  2,550  155  1,089  6,459 
Carrying value, at January 1  954  2,098  3,005  178  850  7,085 
Additions  4  1  8  0  387  400 
Companies acquired 1)  1  0  3  —  —  4 
Disposals 2)  -28  -2  -23  0  0  -53 
Depreciation  —  -96  -306  -19  —  -421 
Impairment  —  -5  -32  -3  0  -40 
Reclassifications  0  11  119  14  -146  -2 
Translation differences and other changes  -85  -187  -224  -15  -3  -515 
Carrying value, at December 31  845  1,820  2,550  155  1,089  6,459 
2024
Accumulated costs  954  4,699  14,693  821  1,224  22,390 
Accumulated depreciation and impairments  —  -2,601  -11,688  -642  -373  -15,305 
Carrying value, at December 31  954  2,098  3,005  178  850  7,085 
Carrying value, at January 1  861  2,073  3,019  175  925  7,053 
Additions  44  0  3  0  462  508 
Companies acquired 1)  7  6  2  1  0  16 
Disposals  -2  0  -1  —  0  -3 
Depreciation  —  -101  -339  -21  —  -461 
Impairment  —  -32  -28  -1  -373  -435 
Reclassifications 3)  1  55  230  16  -167  136 
Translation differences and other changes  43  98  119  8  4  272 
Carrying value, at December 31  954  2,098  3,005  178  850  7,085 
1)  In 2025, the companies acquired relate to the acquisition of Metamark, and in 2024 to the acquisition of Grafityp. Refer to » Note 8.1 Business acquisitions and disposals.
2) Disposals in 2025 relates to the sale of Korkeakoski sawmill to Versowood and to the sale of the Plattling paper mill site in Germany. 
3) Reclassifications in 2024 relate to final classification of assets in the Uruguay pulp mill investment. Refer to » Note 4.4 Goodwill and other intangible assets.
Capital expenditure
Capital expenditure, excluding acquisitions and shares, amounted to 
€409 million (527 million) in 2025.
In January 2020, UPM announced that it would invest in a 220,000 
tonne next-generation biochemicals biorefinery in Leuna, Germany. The 
total investment estimate is €1,335 million.
Capitalized borrowing costs
In 2025, the borrowing costs capitalized as part of non-current assets 
amounted to €33 million (29 million). Amortization of capitalized 
borrowing costs was €4 million (4 million) and the average interest rate 
used 2.78% (3.04%), which represents the average costs to finance the 
projects. In 2025 and 2024, capitalized borrowing costs were related to the 
construction of the biochemicals biorefinery in Germany. 
Government grants
In 2025, government grants recognized as deduction of non-current 
assets totaled to €1 million (3 million). 
Major capital commitments at December 31
€ million 2025 2024
New biorefinery / Germany  42  177 
Advanced label material capacity increase / Mills 
River, NC  8  — 
Capability enhancement and capacity increase / 
Malaysia  10  — 
Impairment losses
In 2025, impairment charges relate to the closure of the Ettringen paper 
mill in Germany, the closure of paper machine 1 at the Kaukas mill in 
Finland and to the closure of Kaltenkirchen factory in Germany.
In 2024, impairment charges relate to the closure of UPM Hürth mill, 
closure of paper machine 3 at Nordland in Germany, closure of 
Kaltenkirchen factory in Germany and property, plant and equipment of 
Leuna biorefinery. In December 2024, the Group conducted the impairment 
UPM Financial Report 2025 287
UPM Annual Report 2025286 287
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

test of UPM Biochemicals CGU resulting to impairment of the entire 
goodwill of €5 million and impairment of €373 million of property, plant 
and equipment. Refer to » Note 4.4 Goodwill and other intangible assets.
Accounting policies
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost. Costs of assets 
of acquired in business combinations are determined at fair value at the 
acquisition date. Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis and 
the carrying value is adjusted for impairment charges, if any. The carrying 
value of property, plant and equipment on the balance sheet represents 
the cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment charges.
Borrowing costs incurred for the construction of any qualifying assets 
are capitalized during the period of time required to complete and prepare 
the asset for its intended use. Other borrowing costs are expensed.
Major renovations are capitalized and depreciated over the useful lives 
of the related asset. Ordinary expenses for repairs and maintenance are 
expensed as incurred. 
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the 
disposal proceeds with the carrying amount and are included in other 
operating income and other operating expenses, respectively.
Assessed useful lives Number of years
Land, not subject to depreciation -
Buildings 20-50
Power plants 20-30
Heavy machinery 15-20
Light machinery 10-15
Equipment  5 
Impairment testing
Carrying values of individual items included in property, plant and 
equipment are reviewed at each closing date to determine whether there is 
any indication of impairment. The carrying value is written down 
immediately to the asset’s recoverable amount if the carrying value 
exceeds the estimated recoverable amount. Assets that have an indefinite 
useful life are not subject to amortization and are tested annually for 
impairment. The recoverable amount is determined as the higher of an 
asset’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. Value in use is 
determined by discounting future cash flows expected to be generated by 
the asset. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped 
at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows 
(cash-generating units).
Non-financial assets, other than goodwill, that have suffered 
impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each 
reporting date. Where an impairment loss is subsequently reversed, the 
carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its 
recoverable amount, but the increased carrying amount will not exceed 
the carrying amount that would have been determined had no 
impairment loss been recognized for the asset in prior years.
Key estimates and judgments
The estimations of useful lives, residual value as well as depreciation and 
amortization methods require significant management judgment and are 
reviewed annually. Management makes estimates on the future cash 
flows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual 
disposal. While management believes that estimates of future cash flows 
are reasonable, different assumptions regarding such cash flows could 
materially affect valuations.
The long useful lives of assets, changes in estimated future sales prices 
of products, changes in product costs and changes in the discount rates 
used could lead to significant impairment charges.
Estimates are also made in an acquisition when determining the fair 
values and remaining useful lives of acquired intangible and tangible assets.
UPM Financial Report 2025 288
4.2 Forest assets
UPM is both a major forest owner and a purchaser of wood. The value of 
forest assets, i.e. standing trees, amounted to €2,605 million (2,517 million) 
at the end of 2025. 
€ million 2025 2024
Carrying value, at January 1  2,517  2,355 
Additions  61  54 
Disposals  -21  -21 
Wood harvested  -178  -218 
Net change in fair value  322  299 
Translation differences  -96  48 
Carrying value, at December 31  2,605  2,517 
Change in fair value, change due to harvesting and gains or losses on sale 
of forest assets are recognized in the income statement as a net amount 
amounting to €144 million (80 million) in 2025. In 2025, the fair value of 
forest assets in Finland were impacted by the decrease in the discount 
rate and higher long term stumpage price estimates. In 2024, the fair value 
of forest assets in Finland was impacted by higher long-term stumpage 
price estimates.
Forest assets
€ million 2025 2024
Forest assets in Finland  1,777  1,695 
Forest assets in Uruguay  814  807 
Forest assets in United States  14  15 
Carrying value, at December 31  2,605  2,517 
Forest land
Forest land is included in land and water areas within property, plant and 
equipment. Refer to » Note 4.1 Property, Plant and equipment. At the end 
of 2025, carrying value of own forest land amounted to €722 million (€801 
million) and leased forest land €225 million (€249 million).
UPM's own and leased forest land areas are summarized in below 
table.
1,000 ha Forest land
Productive 
forest land Forested land
Finland 522 427 415
Uruguay 319 190 177
Uruguay, leased land 177 142 136
United States 76 56 56
Total  1,094  814  784 
Accounting policies
The Group divides all its forest assets for accounting purposes into 
growing forests, which are recognized as forest assets at fair value less
costs to sell, and land. The Group applies IAS 41 to account its forest 
assets. Own land is stated at cost whereas leased land is valued at cost 
less accumulated depreciation. 
Any changes in the fair value of the growing forests are recognized in 
the operating profit in the income statement. The fair value is calculated 
on the basis of discounted future expected cash flows considering 
existing, sustainable harvesting plans and assessments regarding growth, 
timber prices, harvesting and silviculture costs and selling expenses. 
Forest renewal costs are capitalized during the growth cycle as part of the 
forest assets value. The fair value of forest assets is a level 3 measure in 
terms of the fair value measurement hierarchy.
Key estimates and judgments
Fair valuation
The valuation process of forest assets is complex and requires 
management estimates and judgment on assumptions that have a 
significant impact on the valuation of the Group’s forest assets.
The main factors used in the fair valuation of forest assets are 
estimates for growth and wood harvested, stumpage prices and discount 
rates. Stumpage price forecasts are based on the current prices adjusted 
by the management’s estimates for the full remaining productive lives of 
the trees, up to 150 years or until next regeneration cutting for forests in 
Finland and in the U.S. and up to 10 years for plantations in Uruguay. The 
cash flows are adjusted by selling costs and costs related to future risks. 
Felling revenues and maintenance costs are estimated on the basis of 
actual costs and prices, taking into account the Group’s projection of 
future price and costs development. In addition, calculations take into 
account future forest growth and environmental restrictions.
The pre-tax discount rate used to determine the fair value of the 
Finnish forests in 2025 was 9.4% (9.7%) and for Uruguayan plantations 
10.3% (11.2%). A decrease (increase) of one percentage point in discount 
rate would increase (decrease) the fair value of forest assets by 
approximately €239 million (221 million), of which the impact for fair value 
of forest assets for Finland is €213 million and for Uruguay €25 million.  
UPM Financial Report 2025 289
UPM Annual Report 2025288 289
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

4.3 Financial assets at FVOCI
The majority of financial assets at FVOCI consists of energy 
shareholdings. UPM is both a significant purchaser and producer of 
energy. The majority of electrical and thermal energy is consumed at the 
Group’s pulp and paper production. The production is mainly carried out 
by energy companies in which UPM has energy shareholdings. Energy 
shareholdings are unlisted equity investments. Based on the shareholder 
agreements, UPM does not have control or joint control of or significant 
influence in the said energy companies.
The value of energy shareholdings amounted to €2,160 million (€2,242 
million) at the end of 2025. These energy companies supply electricity or 
both electricity and heat to their shareholders on a cost-price principle 
(Mankala-principle) which is widely applied in the Finnish energy industry. 
Under the Mankala-principle electricity and/or heat is supplied to the 
shareholders in proportion to their ownership and each shareholder is 
pursuant to the specific stipulations of the respective articles of 
association, severally responsible for its respective share of the production 
costs of the energy company concerned.
In 2020, UPM issued a shareholder loan of €47 million without a 
maturity date to PVO. Embedded into the loan terms is a right to issue 
new shares in the PVO B2 series against the remaining, unpaid nominal of 
the loan starting from 2021. The loan is valued at fair value and is taken 
into account as a part of the total fair valuation of the PVO B2 series 
valuation. 
Other financial assets at FVOCI include Versowood shares as the 
strategic partnership agreement between UPM and Versowood became 
effective on December 31, 2025. This agreement increased the value of 
financial assets at FVOCI by €29 million.
Financial assets at FVOCI
Number of shares Group holding % Carrying value, € million
2025 2024
Energy shareholdings
    Pohjolan Voima Oyj, A series  8,176,191 61.24  571  543 
    Pohjolan Voima Oyj, B series  4,140,132 58.11  997  1,151 
    Pohjolan Voima Oyj, B2 series  2,869,819 51.22  7  0 
    Kemijoki Oy  179,189 7.33  447  426 
    Länsi-Suomen Voima Oy  10,220  51.10  136  123 
Energy shareholdings total  2,160  2,242 
Other  —  —  33  4 
Carrying value, at December 31  2,193  2,247 
PVO’s share capital is divided into different series of shares. The B and B2 
series relate to PVO’s shareholdings in Teollisuuden Voima Oyj (TVO). 
UPM has no direct shareholdings in TVO. TVO operates three nuclear 
power plants (Olkiluoto 1, Olkiluoto 2 and Olkiluoto 3) in Finland. The 
operation of a nuclear power plant is governed by international, 
European Union and local nuclear regulatory regimes. Pursuant to the 
Finnish Nuclear Liability Act, the operator of a nuclear facility has a strict 
third-party liability in relation to nuclear accidents. Shareholders of power 
companies that own and operate nuclear power plants are not subject to 
the liability under the Nuclear Liability Act. In Finland, the future costs of 
conditioning, storage and final disposal of spent fuel, management of low 
and intermediate level radioactive waste as well as nuclear power plant 
decommissioning are provided for by a state established fund (the 
Finnish State Nuclear Waste Management Fund). The contributions to 
the Fund are intended to be sufficient to cover estimated future costs. 
These contributions have been taken into consideration in the fair value 
of the related energy shareholdings.
Changes in financial assets at FVOCI
€ million 2025 2024
Carrying value, at January 1  2,247  2,283 
Additions  29  — 
Disposals  —  -4 
Changes in fair value recognized in other 
comprehensive income  -83  -32 
Carrying value, at December 31  2,193  2,247 
Accounting policies
The Group has made an irrevocable election to designate its energy 
shareholdings as equity instruments where changes in fair value are 
recognized through OCI. The shareholdings are not held for trading as the 
Group has an intention to hold the investments for the long term. 
Purchases of energy shareholdings are initially and subsequently 
measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, net of tax if 
applicable, with only dividend income recognized through profit and loss. 
UPM Financial Report 2025 290
Initial fair value is acquisition cost including transaction costs. Upon 
disposal of the investment, the accumulated fair value changes in equity 
are not recycled to the income statement but instead, are reclassified 
from the fair value reserve to retained earnings.
The fair value of energy shareholdings is a level 3 measure in the fair 
value measurement hierarchy.
Key estimates and judgments
Fair valuation and sensitivity
Valuation of energy shareholdings requires management’s assumptions 
and estimates of a number of factors that may differ from the actual 
outcome which could lead to significant adjustment to the carrying 
amount of the asset. Fair value is determined on a discounted cash flow 
basis and the main factors impacting the future cash flows include future 
electricity prices, price trends and discount rates. Changes in forecasted 
production volumes or costs, regulatory environment or taxation may 
also have an impact on the value of the energy generating assets. The 
valuation process is carried out by UPM Energy and the results are 
reviewed by management.
The electricity price estimate is based on future electricity forward 
prices and a simulation of the Finnish area electricity price. A change of 
5% in the electricity price used in the model would change the total value 
of the assets by €330 (250) million. The discount rate of 7.23% (8.07%) 
used in the valuation model is determined using the weighted average 
cost of capital method. A change of 0.5% percentage points in the 
discount rate would change the estimated fair value of the assets by 
approximately €190 (180) million.
One of the main factors in the decrease in fair value during the 
reporting period was the decrease in forecasted electricity market prices, 
offset partly by the decrease in the discount rate. 
UPM Financial Report 2025 291
UPM Annual Report 2025290 291
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

4.4 Goodwill and other intangible assets
Companies acquired in 2025 relate mainly to the acquisition of Metamark 
in UPM Adhesive Materials business area. Refer to » note 8.1. Business 
acquisitions and disposals for further information. In 2025, the Group 
impaired the entire goodwill of Other operations amounting to €1 million.
 Companies acquired in 2024 relate to the acquisition of Grafityp in 
UPM Adhesive Materials business area. In 2024, the Group impaired the 
entire goodwill of Pulp operations in Finland CGU  amounting to €113 
million and entire goodwill of UPM Biochemicals CGU amounting to €5 
million.
Goodwill by business area
€ million 2025 2024
Pulp operations Uruguay  100  111 
UPM Adhesive Materials  151  48 
UPM Plywood  13  13 
Other operations  —  1 
Total  264  174 
Goodwill
€ million 2025 2024
Carrying value, at January 1  174  283 
Companies acquired  109  3 
Translation differences  -18  7 
Impairment charges  -1  -118 
Carrying value, at December 31  264  174 
Other intangible assets
€ million Intangible rights
Software and 
other intangible assets Total
2025
Accumulated costs  375  624  999 
Accumulated amortization and impairments  -159  -488  -646 
Carrying value, at December 31  216  136  352 
Carrying value, at January 1  212  104  316 
Additions  3  6  9 
Companies acquired 1)  0  60  60 
Amortization  -7  -24  -30 
Impairment  -1  0  -2 
Reclassifications  9  -8  1 
Translation differences  0  -2  -2 
Carrying value, at December 31  216  136  352 
Emission rights, carrying value 2)  201 
Carrying value including emission rights, at December 31  554 
2024
Accumulated costs  434  587  1,021 
Accumulated amortization and impairments  -222  -482  -705 
Carrying value, at December 31  212  104  316 
Carrying value, at January 1  214  245  459 
Additions  3  16  18 
Companies acquired 1)  —  5  5 
Amortization  -5  -26  -30 
Impairment  0  -5  -5 
Reclassifications 3)  0  -136  -135 
Translation differences  0  4  4 
Carrying value, at December 31  212  104  316 
Emission rights, carrying value 2)  264 
Carrying value including emission rights, at December 31  580 
1) In 2025, the companies acquired relate to the acquisition of Metamark, and in 2024 to the acquisition of Grafityp. Refer to » Note 8.1 Business acquisitions and disposals.
2) Refer to » Note 2.3 Operating expenses and other operating income, for further information on emission rights.
3) Reclassifications in 2024 relate to final classification of assets in the Uruguay pulp mill investment. Refer to » Note 4.1  Property, plant and equipment.
UPM Financial Report 2025 292
Impairment testing
Impairment tests for goodwill and water rights with indefinite life were 
carried out in the fourth quarter 2025.
Water rights of hydropower plants belonging to UPM Energy and 
reported in intangible rights amounted €189 million at the end of 2025 
and 2024. The values of water rights were tested based on expected future 
cash flows of each separate hydro power plant. The impairment test of 
water rights did not result in a recognition of any impairment in 2025 and 
2024.
Goodwill impairment tests were carried out for pulp operations in 
Uruguay, belonging to the UPM Fibres business area, UPM Adhesive 
Materials business area and UPM Plywood business area. The 
recoverable amount of CGUs was estimated based on value in use 
calculations.
The basis for valuation and key assumptions used in goodwill impairment testing are summarized in the below table:
Cash generating unit
Basis of 
valuation  Period of forecast Pre-tax discount rate  Key assumptions
Pulp operations Uruguay Value in use 10 years + terminal value 8.60% (2024: 9.12%) Pulp price, wood costs
UPM Adhesive Materials Value in use 10 years + terminal value 9.14% (2024: 10.59%) Product prices, cost development
UPM Plywood Value in use 10 years + terminal value  10.18% (2024: 11.12%) Product prices, cost development 
Sensitivity analyses
The sensitivity analyses of goodwill impairment tests indicate that no 
reasonable change in key assumptions would result in recognition of 
impairment loss against goodwill. In pulp operations Uruguay, the 
recoverable amount is most sensitive to pulp sales prices. 
Key estimates and judgments
The Group’s assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and indefinite 
life assets requires significant judgment.
While management believes that estimates of future cash flows are 
reasonable, different assumptions are subject to change as a result of 
changing economic and operational conditions. Actual cash flows could 
therefore vary from estimated discounted future cash flows and could 
result in changes in the recognition of impairment charges in future 
periods.
Future cash flows
The review of recoverable amount for goodwill and indefinite life assets is 
based on a calculation of value in use, using management projections of 
future cash flows. The most important assessments and assumptions 
needed in calculations are forecasts for future growth rates for the 
business in question, product prices, cost development and the discount 
rates applied. The Group is using ten-year forecasts in calculations as the 
nature of the Group’s business is long term, due to its capital intensity, 
and is exposed to cyclical changes. In estimates of product prices and 
cost development, forecasts prepared by management for the next three 
years and estimates made for the following seven years are taken into 
consideration. In addition, consideration is given to the investment 
decisions made by the Group as well as the profitability programs that the 
Group has implemented and the views of knowledgeable industry experts 
on the long-term development of demand and prices. In the projection 
of cash flows UPM uses EBITDA adjusted with cash flows not captured 
within EBITDA, including working capital movements and capital 
expenditures. An assumed terminal value is based on a EBITDA multiples 
six times.
Discount rate
The discount rate is estimated using the weighted average cost of capital 
(WACC) on the calculation date adjusted for risks specific to the business 
in question. The adjusted after-tax discount rate is translated to a pre-tax 
rate for each cash generating unit (CGU) based on the specific tax rate 
applicable to where the CGU operates.
Accounting policies
Goodwill
Goodwill arises in connection with business combinations where the 
consideration transferred exceeds the fair value of the acquired net 
assets. Goodwill is recognized at cost less accumulated impairment and 
is an intangible asset with an indefinite useful life. Goodwill is allocated to 
the cash generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies 
from the business combination.
Intangible rights
Intangible rights include water rights of hydropower plants, patents, 
licenses, intellectual property and similar rights. Water rights are deemed 
to have an indefinite useful life as the company has a contractual right to 
exploit water resources in the energy production of power plants.
The values of water rights are tested annually for impairment based on 
expected future cash flows of each separate hydropower plant. Other 
intangible rights are recognized at cost less accumulated amortization 
and impairment. Amortization is calculated using the straight-line 
method over their estimated useful lives ranging from 5 to 10 years.
Software and other intangible assets
Research expenditure is recognized as an expense as incurred. 
Costs incurred in acquiring software that will contribute to future 
period financial benefit are capitalized to software and systems. Other 
intangible assets are recognized at cost less accumulated amortization 
and impairment. Amortization is calculated using the straight-line 
method over their estimated useful lives ranging from 3 to 5 years.
UPM Financial Report 2025 293
UPM Annual Report 2025292 293
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

Impairment testing
Goodwill and other intangible assets that are deemed to have an 
indefinite life are tested at least annually for impairment. For goodwill 
impairment testing purposes the Group identifies its cash-generating 
units (CGUs), which is the smallest identifiable group of assets that 
generate cash inflows largely independent of the cash inflows of other 
assets or other groups of assets. Each CGU is no larger than a business 
area. The carrying amount for the CGU includes goodwill, non-current 
assets and working capital. If the balance sheet carrying amount of the 
CGU unit exceeds its recoverable amount, an impairment loss is 
recognized. Impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying 
amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to other assets of 
the unit. An impairment loss recognized for goodwill is not reversed in a 
subsequent period.
Other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are impaired if the 
recoverable amount of the asset is less than the carrying amount. The 
carrying amount of the asset is then reduced to the recoverable amount 
which is the higher of the asset’s net selling price and its value in use.
4.5 Provisions
€ million Restructuring Termination Environmental Emissions Other Total
2025
Provisions at January 1  55  79  26  66  28  253 
Provisions made during the year  56  73  5  60  21  214 
Provisions utilized during the year  -29  -53  -1  -61  -11  -155 
Unused provisions reversed  -12  -9  0  -2  -7  -31 
Translation differences  0  0  0  -1  0  -1 
Provisions at December 31  70  89  29  63  30  280 
Non-current  101 
Current  179 
Total  280 
2024
Provisions at January 1  59  117  27  56  6  266 
Provisions made during the year  27  58  0  78  26  189 
Provisions utilized during the year  -29  -90  -1  -68  -1  -189 
Unused provisions reversed  -4  -5  -1  -1  -3  -14 
Reclassifications  1  -1  0  0  0  0 
Translation differences  0  0  0  0  0  1 
Provisions at December 31  55  79  26  66  28  253 
Non-current  89 
Current  165 
Total  253 
UPM has undergone several restructuring programs in recent years 
including mill closures and profit improvement programs. Restructuring 
provisions recognized include various restructuring activities including 
dismantling costs. Termination provisions include severance payments, 
unemployment compensations or other arrangements for employees 
leaving the company. In Finland, termination provisions include also 
unemployment arrangements and disability pensions. Unemployment 
provisions in Finland are recognized 2–3 years before the granting and 
settlement of the compensation. 
At  December 31, 2025, restructuring and termination provisions 
mainly relate to capacity closures and optimization of operations in UPM 
Communication Papers and UPM Adhesive Materials business areas. At 
December 31, 2024, restructuring and termination provisions relate mainly 
to capacity closures and optimizations of operations in UPM 
Communication Papers.
In 2025, additions to restructuring and termination provisions of €99 
million relate to the closures of Ettringen paper mill in Germany and 
Kaukas paper machine 1 in Finland in UPM Communication Papers and 
the discontinuation of production at Nancy factory in France in UPM 
Adhesive Materials.
In 2024, additions to restructuring and termination provisions of €71 
million relate to closures of Hürth newsprint mill and Nordland fine paper 
machine 3 and the closure of Adhesive Materials Kaltenkirchen factory.
The Group recognizes provisions for normal environmental 
remediation costs expected to be incurred in a future period upon a 
removal of non-current assets and restoring industrial landfills where a 
legal or constructive obligation exists.
Other provisions mainly include other short-term obligations related to 
emission rights.
UPM Financial Report 2025 294
Provisions for emissions include liability to cover the obligation to 
return emission rights. The Group possesses emission rights amounting 
to €201 million (€264 million) as intangible assets.
Refer to » Note 2.3 Operating expenses and other operating income, for 
further information on emission rights.
Accounting policies
A provision is recognized when a present legal or constructive obligation 
exists as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of 
resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be 
reliably estimated. Provisions are split between amounts expected to be 
settled within 12 months of the balance sheet date (current) and amounts 
expected to be settled later (non-current).
Restructuring and termination provisions
A restructuring provisions is recognized when a detailed plan for the 
implementation of the measures is complete and when the plan has been 
communicated to those who are affected. Employee termination 
provisions are recognized when the Group has communicated the plan to 
the employees. 
Environmental provisions
Environmental expenditures that relate to an existing condition 
caused by past operations that do not contribute to future earnings are 
expensed. The recognition of environmental provisions is based on 
current interpretations of environmental laws and regulations. Such 
provisions are recognized when the Group has an obligation to dismantle 
and remove a facility or an item of plant and to restore the site on which 
it is located. The amount recognized is the present value of the estimated 
future expenditure determined in accordance with local conditions and 
requirements. A corresponding item of property, plant and equipment 
of an amount equivalent to the provision is also recognized and 
subsequently depreciated as part of the asset. Provisions do not include 
any third-party recoveries.
Emission provisions
Emission obligations are recognized in provisions based on realized 
emissions. The provision is measured at the carrying amounts of the 
corresponding emission rights held, which are recognized as intangible 
assets. In case of deficit in emission rights, the shortage is valued at 
the market value at the balance sheet date.
Key estimates and judgments
Environmental provisions
The estimates used in determining the provisions are based on the 
expenses incurred for similar activities in the current reporting period 
taking into account the effect of inflation, cost-base development and 
discounting. Because actual outflows can differ from estimates due to 
changes in laws, regulations, public expectations, technology, prices and 
conditions, and can take place many years in the future, the carrying 
amounts of provisions are regularly reviewed and adjusted to take into 
account of any such changes. The discount rate applied is reviewed 
annually.
The Group aims to operate in compliance with regulations related to 
the treatment of waste water, air emissions and landfill sites. However, 
expected events during production processes and waste treatment could 
cause material losses and additional costs in the Group’s operations.
Legal contingencies
Management judgment is required in measurement and recognition of 
provisions related to pending litigation. Provisions are recorded when the 
Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past 
event, an unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of loss can 
be reasonably estimated. Due to inherent uncertain nature of litigation, 
the actual losses may differ significantly from the originally estimated 
provision.
Refer to » Note 9.2 Litigation for details of legal contingencies.
UPM Financial Report 2025 295
UPM Annual Report 2025294 295
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

4.6 Working capital
The Group defines operating working capital as inventories, trade 
receivables, trade payables and advances received which are presented 
separately below. The performance obligations related to advances 
received are typically fulfilled within 12 months of receipt of the advance. 
UPM is focusing on working capital efficiency and targeting a sustainable 
and permanent reduction in operating working capital.
Operating working capital
€ million 2025 2024
Inventories  1,886  2,104 
Trade receivables  1,081  1,432 
Trade payables  -1,240  -1,369 
Advances received  -12  -6 
Total  1,714  2,161 
Inventories
€ million 2025 2024
Raw materials and consumables  1,025  1,149 
Work in progress  0  6 
Finished products and goods  828  915 
Advance payments  32  35 
Total  1,886  2,104 
Trade and other receivables
€ million 2025 2024
Trade receivables
Trade receivables  1,106  1,458 
Loss allowance provision  -25  -26 
Total trade receivables  1,081  1,432 
Prepayments and accrued income
Personnel expenses  3  3 
Interest income  0  0 
Energy and other excise taxes  7  8 
Other items  151  164 
Total prepayments and accrued income  161  176 
Other receivables 
VAT and other indirect taxes receivable  162  169 
Cash collaterals  35  110 
Other receivables  43  43 
Total other receivables  239  322 
Total  1,481  1,929 
Trade receivables aging
2025 2024
€ million Trade receivables
Loss allowance 
provision
Trade receivables, 
net of provision Trade receivables
Loss allowance 
provision
Trade receivables, 
net of provision
Undue  987  -2  985  1,347  -3  1,345 
Past due up to 30 days  68  -1  66  63  -1  62 
Past due 31–90 days  10  -2  8  14  -2  12 
Past due over 90 days  40  -19  21  34  -21  13 
Total  1,106  -25  1,081  1,458  -26  1,432 
Trade and other payables
€ million 2025 2024
Accrued expenses and deferred income
Personnel expenses  162  186 
Interest expenses  30  30 
Indirect taxes  15  16 
Customer rebates  99  114 
Customer claims  5  6 
Other items  108  109 
Total accrued expenses and deferred income  419  462 
Advances received  12  6 
Trade payables  1,240  1,369 
Other current liabilities  167  101 
Total  1,839  1,938 
UPM Financial Report 2025 296
Operational credit risk
Operational credit risk is defined as the risk where UPM is not able to 
collect the payments for its receivables. The Group has a credit policy in 
place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. 
Outstanding trade receivables, days of sales outstanding (DSO) and 
overdue trade receivables are followed on monthly basis. Potential 
concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade and other receivables 
are limited due to the large number and the geographic dispersion of 
customers. Customer credit limits are established and monitored, and 
ongoing evaluations of their financial condition is performed. The Group 
has trade credit insurances to protect accounts receivables from 
significant credit losses. In certain market areas, including Asia and 
Northern Africa, measures to reduce credit risks include letters of credit, 
prepayments and bank guarantees. Maximum exposure to credit risk, 
without taking into account any credit enhancements, is the carrying 
amount of trade and other receivables.
UPM does not have significant concentration of customer credit risk. 
The ten largest customers accounted for approximately 17% (20%) of the 
trade receivables as at  December 31, 2025 – i.e. approximately €188 
million (288 million).
In 2025, trade receivables amounting to €3 million (15 million) were 
subject to permanent write-off and the loss was recognized under other 
costs and expenses. In accordance with the Group’s accounting policy, 
trade receivables are permanently written off when there is no reasonable 
expectation of recovery.
Accounting policies
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Cost is 
determined by the method most appropriate to the particular nature of 
inventory, the first-in, first-out (FIFO) or weighted average cost. The cost of 
finished goods and work in progress comprises raw materials, direct labor, 
other direct costs and related production overheads (based on normal 
operating capacity) but excludes borrowing costs. Net realizable value is 
the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the 
costs of completion and selling expenses. If the net realizable value is 
lower than cost, a valuation allowance is established for inventory 
obsolescence.
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables arising from selling goods and services in the normal 
course of business are recognized initially at transaction price and 
subsequently at amortized cost less loss allowance provision. No 
significant element of financing is deemed present as the sales are made 
with a credit term of 14–60 days, which is consistent with market practice.
The Group applies the IFRS 9 simplified approach to measuring 
expected credit losses which uses a lifetime expected loss allowance for 
all trade receivables. The Group has recognized two types of provisions 
for trade receivables – a general provision for lifetime expected credit 
losses and a provision for specified individual trade receivables, both of 
which are charged to the income statement. The Group uses a provision 
matrix for estimating lifetime expected credit losses where trade 
receivables are segregated by businesses. The provision matrix is based 
on historical observed default rates, adjusted by forward looking 
information. It takes into account trade credit insurances, payment profile 
of customers and the factor that as debts get older they are more likely 
not to be paid. Additionally, the Group recognizes a provision individually 
for outstanding trade receivables where specific debtor information is 
available. In these cases there must be objective evidence that the Group 
will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms 
of the receivables.
Trade receivables are permanently written off when there is no 
reasonable expectation of recovery. The customer entering into 
bankruptcy or liquidation proceedings or finalizing such proceedings, or 
entering into debt-restructuring are considered indicators that the trade 
receivables are no longer expected to be recovered. Subsequent 
recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited to the income 
statement. The carrying amount of trade receivables approximates to 
their fair value due to the short-term nature of the receivables.
Other receivables consist mainly of cash collaterals pledged for 
commodity contracts and interest rate futures. The fair value equals to 
the amount of cash pledged as collateral. The cash collaterals cover the 
counterparties' losses in case UPM is unable to meet its obligations.
Trade and other payables
Trade payables arise from purchase of inventories, fixed assets and 
goods and services in the ordinary course of business from UPM’s 
suppliers. Trade and other payables are classified as current liabilities if 
they are due to be settled within the normal operating cycle of the 
business or within 12 months from the balance sheet date. Trade payables 
are recognized initially at fair value and subsequently at amortized cost 
using the effective interest method. The carrying amount of trade 
payables approximates to their fair value due to the short-term nature of 
the payables.
The Group is recognizing refund liability for expected volume and 
other discounts arising from contracts with customers. Customer rebates 
include mainly volume discounts and are recognized as equal to an 
amount which is most likely to be paid to the customer. The carrying 
amount of expected customer rebates is updated at each reporting date, 
using the latest forecast data available.
Customer claims relating to quality complaints are accounted for as 
revenue-related refund liability. Expected customer claims are estimated 
based on historical data and the amount of refund liability is updated at 
each reporting date. Customer claims and customer rebates are typically 
expected to realize within the next 12 months.
Advances received are recognized as contract liability until the 
performance obligation is fulfilled.
UPM Financial Report 2025 297
UPM Annual Report 2025296 297
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

5. Capital structure
UPM has a strong cash flow and industry-leading balance sheet that mitigates risks and enables value-enhancing strategic actions.
€ 3,004 m € 977 m
(€ 2,869m) (€ 766m)
Net debt Free cash flow
5.1 Capital management
UPM’s objective for managing capital comprising of net debt and total 
equity is to ensure maintenance of flexible capital structure to enable the 
ability to operate in capital markets and maintain optimal returns to 
shareholders. The Group manages its financing activities, debt portfolio 
and financial resources via various policies that are designed to ensure 
optimum financing arrangements minimizing simultaneously financial 
expenses and refinancing risk and optimizing liquidity. Borrowing 
activities are centralized to the parent to the extent possible and cash 
resources are distributed within the Group by the central treasury 
department.
UPM targets a net debt to EBITDA ratio of approximately 2 times or less.
UPM’s capital
€ million 2025 2024
Equity attributable to owners of the parent company  10,001  11,139 
Non-controlling interest  333  401 
Total equity  10,335  11,540 
Non-current debt  3,638  3,747 
Current debt  156  166 
Total debt  3,794  3,913 
Total capitalization  14,129  15,452 
Total debt  3,794  3,913 
Less: Interest-bearing financial assets and 
investment funds  790  1,044 
Net debt  3,004  2,869 
Gearing ratio, % 1)  29  25 
Net debt to EBITDA 1)  2.29  1.66 
1) Refer to » Other financial information on Alternative performance measures.
Liquidity and refinancing risk
Under all circumstances, UPM seeks to maintain adequate liquidity, which 
depends on a number of factors, such as the availability of cash flows 
from operations and access to additional debt and equity financing. UPM 
aims to ensure sufficient liquidity by means of efficient cash management 
and restricting financial investments to investment types that can readily 
be converted into cash and by keeping a sufficient amount of unused 
committed credit lines or cash as a reserve. UPM aims to minimize 
refinancing risks by ensuring a balanced loan portfolio maturing schedule 
and sufficiently long maturities. The average loan maturity at December 
31, 2025 was 5.5 years (5.5 years). 
Liquidity and refinancing
€ million 2025 2024
Cash at bank  715  849 
Cash equivalents  —  42 
Investment funds  1 1
Committed credit lines  2,009 2,310
of which used  —  0 
Loan commitments  —  — 
Used uncommitted credit lines  -33 -1
Long-term loan repayment cash flow  -121 -151
Liquidity  2,570  3,050 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits held at 
banks and with original maturities of three months or less. Investment 
funds comprise fund investments with a redemption period of less than 12 
months. Commercial papers and utilized bank overdrafts are included in 
used uncommitted credit lines and presented within current debt in the 
balance sheet. In 2025 or 2024, no material impairment and no expected 
credit losses were recognized in profit or loss for loan receivables or cash 
and cash equivalents.
UPM Financial Report 2025 298
€ million
Repayments of debt and maturities of unused committed credit lines at the end of 2025
Leases
Loans
Unused committed credit lines
2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 2031+
0
500
1,000
1,500
Maturity table of debt at the end of 2025
€ million 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 2031+ Total
Bonds  —  319  750  500  —  1,100  2,669 
Loans from financial institutions  31  31  31  31  31  —  154 
Lease liabilities  90  72  59  50  55  446  772 
Other loans  —  —  —  114  —  —  115 
Current loans  33  —  —  —  —  —  33 
Principal payments  154  423  840  695  86  1,546  3,743 
Interest payments  94  88  60  52  33  194  520 
The difference between the above nominal values and carrying value of total debt arise from fair value adjustments decreasing carrying value by €44 
million and other non-cash adjustments decreasing carrying value by €19 million.
Maturity table of debt at the end of 2024
€ million 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030+ Total
Bonds  —  —  361  750  500  1,100  2,711 
Loans from financial institutions  34  31  31  31  31  31  188 
Lease liabilities  115  81  69  63  55  451  832 
Other loans  2  —  —  —  129  —  131 
Current loans  1  —  —  —  —  —  1 
Principal payments  152  112  461  844  714  1,581  3,863 
Interest payments  102  93  91  63  56  215  620 
The difference between the above nominal values and carrying value of total debt arise from fair value adjustments decreasing carrying value by €26 
million and other non-cash adjustments decreasing carrying value by €23 million.
UPM Financial Report 2025 299
UPM Annual Report 2025298 299
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

Maturity table of derivatives included in net debt and guarantees at the end of 2025
€ million 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 2031+ Total
Net settled interest rate swaps
Net inflow  9  9  —  —  —  —  18 
Net outflow  -19  -20  -21  -1  -2  -17  -81 
Gross settled derivatives 
Gross currency swaps 
Total inflow  7  7  7  117  —  —  137 
Total outflow  -5  -5  -6  -168  —  —  -184 
Forward foreign exchange contracts 
Total inflow  811  —  —  —  —  —  811 
Total outflow  -809  —  —  —  —  —  -809 
Guarantees  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
Maturity table of derivatives included in net debt and guarantees at the end of 2024
€ million 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030+ Total
Net settled interest rate swaps
Net inflow  5  8  9  1  1  —  25 
Net outflow  -23  -17  -18  -19  —  —  -79 
Gross settled derivatives 
Gross currency swaps 
Total inflow  8  8  8  8  133  —  163 
Total outflow  -5  -5  -5  -5  -168  —  -189 
Forward foreign exchange contracts 
Total inflow  741  —  —  —  —  —  741 
Total outflow  -750  —  —  —  —  —  -750 
Guarantees  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
UPM Financial Report 2025 300
5.2 Net debt
Net debt is defined as the total of current and non-current debt less 
interest-bearing current and non-current financial assets. In 2025, net 
debt increased by €135 million. Net debt totaled €3,004 million (2,869 
million) at the end of 2025. 
UPM has a €5 billion Euro Medium Term Note (EMTN) programme 
and a Green Finance Framework that aligns with the International Capital 
Markets Association (ICMA) Green Bond Principles. The framework has a 
second party opinion from S&P Global ratings with the highest "Dark 
green" overall shading.  UPM has issued four Green Bonds, totaling 
€2,350 million.
The proceeds from the Green Bonds have been allocated in 
accordance with the Green Finance Framework to eligible green projects 
and assets. The following framework categories have been used for the 
issued Green Bonds: sustainable forest and plantation management, 
climate-positive and circular bioeconomy adapted products and 
solutions, and renewable or CO2 -free energy. The bonds do not have any 
financial covenants, and all issued euro bonds are listed on the Irish Stock 
Exchange plc, trading as Euronext Dublin.
€ million
Gearing ratio, %
Net debt
2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
-5
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
Net debt
€ million 2025 2024
Bonds  2,594  2,642 
Loans from financial institutions  123  154 
Lease liabilities  684  717 
Derivatives  111  84 
Other loans  126  149 
Non-current debt  3,638  3,747 
Repayments of non-current debt  31  36 
Repayments of lease liabilities  88  115 
Derivatives  3  14 
Other liabilities  33  1 
Current debt  156  166 
Total debt  3,794  3,913 
Loan receivables  2  2 
Derivatives  14  21 
Other receivables  16  15 
Non-current interest-bearing assets  32  38 
Loan receivables  1 1
Derivatives  5  2 
Other receivables  35  110 
Investment funds  1  1 
Cash and cash equivalents  715  892 
Current interest-bearing assets  758  1,006 
Total interest-bearing assets  790  1,044 
Net debt  3,004  2,869 
Accounting policies
Debt
Debt comprising of bonds, bank and pension loans, lease liabilities and 
other loans is recognized initially at fair value, net of transaction costs and 
subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest 
method. Any difference between proceeds (net of transaction costs) and 
the redemption value is recognized in the income statement over the 
estimated life of the borrowing. UPM classifies debt as non-current unless 
due for settlement within a year. Most of the debt is hedged in a fair value 
hedge relationship as described in » Note 6.1 Financial risk management.
UPM Financial Report 2025 301
UPM Annual Report 2025300 301
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

Change in net debt 2025
Reported in financing activities in cash flow statement
€ million
Non-current 
loans incl. 
repayments
Lease 
liabilities
Current 
loans
Net 
deriva-
tives
Invest-
ment 
funds
Debt 
held for 
sale
Other 
financial 
assets
Cash and 
cash 
equiva-
lents 
Financial 
assets held 
for sale
Net 
debt
Carrying value, at January 1 2981 832  1  76  -1  —  -128  -892  —  2,869 
Change in net debt, cash
Proceeds from non-current debt 65  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  65 
Payments of non-current debt -148  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  -148 
Lease repayments  — -112  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  -112 
Change in current liabilities  —  —  32  —  —  —  —  —  —  32 
Net cash flows from derivatives  —  —  —  14  —  —  —  —  —  14 
Change in other financial assets 
in operating cash flow  —  —  —  —  —  —  73  —  —  73 
Change in other financial assets 
in investing cash flow  —  —  —  —  —  —  -1  —  —  -1 
Change in cash and cash 
equivalents  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  158  —  158 
-83 -112  32  14  —  —  72  158  —  80 
Change in net debt, non-cash
Companies acquired 48  4  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  52 
New contracts and subsequent 
additions  — 84  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  84 
Lease liability reassessments  — 11  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  11 
Fair value gains and losses -18  —  —  6  —  —  —  —  —  -13 
Exchange gains and losses -56 -47  —  —  —  —  1  19  —  -84 
Effective interest rate adjustment 5  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  5 
 -22  52  —  6  —  —  1  19  —  55 
Carrying value, at December 31  2,875  772  33  95  -1  —  -55  -715  —  3,004 
UPM Financial Report 2025 302
Change in net debt 2024
Reported in financing activities in cash flow statement
€ million
Non-
current 
loans incl. 
repay-
ments
Lease 
liabilities
Current 
loans
Net 
deriva-
tives
Invest-
ment 
funds
Debt held 
for sale
Other 
financial 
assets
Cash and 
cash 
equiva-
lents 
Financial 
assets held 
for sale
Net 
debt
Carrying value, at January 1  2,371  706  180  63  -1  2  -208  -632  -47  2,432 
Change in net debt, cash
Proceeds from non-current debt  600  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  600 
Payments of non-current debt  -23  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  -23 
Lease repayments  —  -105  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  -105 
Change in current liabilities  —  —  -182  —  —  —  —  —  —  -182 
Net cash flows from derivatives  —  —  —  -5  —  —  —  —  —  -5 
Transaction costs and discounts in 
operating cash flow  -7  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  -7 
Change in other financial assets in 
operating cash flow  —  —  —  —  —  —  79  —  —  79 
Change in other financial assets in 
investing cash flow  —  —  —  —  —  —  0  —  —  0 
Change in cash and cash 
equivalents 1)  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  -261  39  -222 
 570  -105  -182  -5  —  —  79  -261  39  135 
Change in net debt, non-cash
Companies acquired  1  —  3  4 
Companies disposed  —  —  —  —  —  -2  2  —  9  9 
New contracts and subsequent 
additions  —  202  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  202 
Lease liability reassessments  —  5  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  5 
Fair value gains and losses  17  —  —  18  —  —  —  —  —  35 
Exchange gains and losses  17  24  —  —  —  —  —  2  —  43 
Effective interest rate adjustment  4  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  4 
 40  231  3  18  —  -2  1  2  9  302 
Carrying value, at December 31  2,981  832  1  76  -1  —  -128  -892  —  2,869 
1) The difference between the change in cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated cash flow statement, amounting to €222 million and the change in cash and cash equivalents here, 
amounting to €261 million, is due to cash and cash equivalents classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2023, amounting to €39 million. Cash and cash equivalents classified as held for 
sale were disposed in 2024 as a part of the sale of 100% of the shares of Austrian subsidiary UPM Kymmene-Austria GmbH to the HEINZEL GROUP.
UPM Financial Report 2025 303
UPM Annual Report 2025302 303
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

Free cash flow
Free cash flow is primarily a liquidity measure. It is an important indicator 
of UPM’s overall operational performance as it reflects the cash 
generated from operations after investing activities. 
€ million 2025 2024
Operating cash flow  1,405  1,352 
Investing cash flow  -428  -586 
Free cash flow  977  766 
Dividends paid to owners of the parent company  -792  -801 
Treasury shares purchased  -160  — 
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests  -23  -19 
Return of capital to NCI  -8  — 
Other financing cash flow  -1  -10 
Transaction costs and discounts in operating cash flow  —  7 
Change in other financial assets in operating cash flow  -73  -79 
Change in other financial assets in investing cash flow  1  — 
Change in net debt, cash  80  135 
Change in net debt, non-cash  55  302 
Change in net debt  135  437 
Opening net debt  2,869  2,432 
Closing net debt  3,004  2,869 
€ million
Free cash flow
21 22 23 24 25
-1,000
-500
0
500
1,000
1,500
Bonds
Fixed rate period Interest rate, % Currency
Nominal value 
issued, million 
Carrying value 2025
€ million
Carrying value 
2024 € million
1997-2027 7.450 USD  375  331  375 
2020-2028 0.125 EUR  750  691  675 
2021-2031 0.500 EUR  500  496  496 
2022-2029 2.250 EUR  500  498  497 
2024-2034 3.375 EUR  600  578  599 
Value, at December 31  2,594  2,642 
Current portion  —  — 
Non-current portion  2,594  2,642 
Leases 
Leases of property, plant and equipment where UPM, as a lessee, obtains 
substantially all of the economic benefits from the use of the identified 
asset and where UPM has the right to direct the use of the identified asset, 
are classified as leases. Approximately 29% (29%) of leased assets 
recognized on the balance sheet consist of land areas in Uruguay, which 
the Group uses for eucalyptus plantations. Approximately 23% (24%) 
consists of Uruguay railway service agreement. Approximately 8% (8%) of 
leased assets on the balance sheet consists of vessels for sea 
transportation in Europe. Approximately 3% (6%) of the leased assets on 
the balance sheet consist of four power plants. UPM uses the energy 
generated by these plants for its own production. In addition, the Group 
has leased two waste water treatment plants as well as several 
warehouses, terminals, offices and railcars. UPM also leases some 
production machinery and equipment like forklifts and vehicles that are 
insignificant to the total leased assets portfolio.
In 2025, additions to leased assets mainly relate to the commencement 
of the service agreement related to wastewater treatment in Leuna  
Germany. Business acquisitions in 2025 relate to the acquisition of 
Metamark. Refer to » Note 8.1 Business acquisitions and disposals for 
more information. Impairment charges in 2025 relate to the closure of 
paper machine 1 at the Kaukas mill. In 2024, additions to leased assets 
mainly relate to Uruguay railway service agreement. 
In 2025, the total cash outflow for leased assets was €112 (105) million. 
The expenses related to short-term leases recognized in the income 
statement in 2025 were €3 million. The Group did not have significant 
variable lease payments in 2025.
The lease commitments for leases not commenced at year-end 
 December 31, 2025 were €0 (24) million. The decrease during reporting 
period is due to the commencement of the service agreement related to 
wastewater treatment in Leuna, Germany.
UPM Financial Report 2025 304
Changes in leased assets 
€ million Land areas Buildings
Machinery and 
equipment
Other leased 
assets
Advance 
payments 1) Total
2025
Carrying value, at January 1  291  144  411  1  —  847 
New contracts and subsequent additions  12  19  51  1  —  83 
Business acquisitions  —  4  0  —  —  4 
Reassessments and disposals  10  2  0  0  —  12 
Depreciation  -18  -23  -48  0  —  -90 
Impairments  —  0  -14  —  —  -15 
Translation differences  -32  -4  -28  0  —  -64 
Carrying value, at December 31  263  142  372  1  —  778 
2024
Carrying value, at January 1  272  161  226  1  24  683 
New contracts and subsequent additions  19  3  181  1  9  213 
Reassessments and disposals  1  4  -1  0  —  4 
Depreciation  -18  -24  -43  0  —  -85 
Reclassifications  —  —  33  —  -33  — 
Translation differences  16  0  15  0  0  32 
Carrying value, at December 31  291  144  411  1  —  847 
1) Advance payments for leases not commenced at the year end reporting date December 31. 
Accounting policies
Leases
The Group as a lessee
UPM assesses whether a contract is or contains a lease at inception of 
the contract. This assessment involves the exercise of judgment about 
whether it depends on a specified asset, whether UPM obtains 
substantially all the economic benefits from the use of that asset, and 
whether UPM has the right to direct the use of the asset. 
The Group recognizes a leased asset and a lease liability at the lease 
commencement date, except for short-term leases. UPM applies this to 
all asset classes. Short-term leases are leases that, at the 
commencement date, have a lease term of 12 months or less. A lease that 
contains a purchase option is not a short-term lease. UPM recognizes 
lease payments of short-term leases as an expense on a straight-line 
basis over the lease term. 
The lease term is determined as the non-cancellable period of the 
lease taking into consideration the options to extend and terminate if it is 
reasonably certain that the Group will exercise the extension option or will 
not exercise the termination option. If the contract is for an indefinite 
period of time and the Group and the lessor both have a right to 
terminate the contract within a short notice period (12 months or less) 
without a significant economic penalties and termination cash payments, 
the contract is considered to be a short-term contract. 
The lease liability is recognized at the commencement date and 
measured at the present value of the lease payments to be paid during 
the lease term. The Group uses, as a basis, discount rate implicit in the 
lease and if that rate cannot be readily determined, UPM uses 
incremental borrowing rate which comprises of currency and lease term-
based reference rate and specific credit spread as well as other specific 
terms and conditions of a lease. Lease payments can include fixed 
payments, variable payments that depend on an index or rate and 
extension option payments or purchase options if it is reasonably certain 
that the Group will exercise them. The lease liability is subsequently 
measured at amortized cost using the effective interest rate method and 
remeasured (with corresponding adjustment to the related leased asset) 
when there is a change in future lease payments due to renegotiation, 
changes of an index or rate or reassessment of options.
Leased asset comprises the initial lease liability, initial direct costs and 
the obligations to refurbish the asset, less any incentives granted by the 
lessors. The leased asset is subsequently valued at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and impairment losses. Remeasurement takes place in case 
lease liability is remeasured and change in cash flows is based on 
contract terms that have been included in the original contract. The 
leased asset is depreciated over the shorter of the asset’s useful life and 
the lease term. The leased asset is subject to testing for impairment if 
there is an indicator for impairment, as for own assets.
The Group has elected to separate non-lease components such as 
service components and other variable components and account them 
for as expenses, if they can be separated from the leased asset. However, 
the Group does not separate non-lease components from the lease 
UPM Financial Report 2025 305
UPM Annual Report 2025304 305
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

contracts of company cars. The Group does not apply portfolio approach 
of leases with similar characteristics.
Leased assets are presented in the balance sheet as a separate 
financial statement line item. Lease liabilities are presented as part of 
non-current debt and current debt line items in the balance sheet. Lease 
liabilities are part of net debt calculation of the Group. Short-term lease 
payments are reported as rents and lease expenses. Variable lease 
payments are recognized within the operating costs and expenses based 
on the nature of the payment. The interest expense on the lease liability is 
recognized as a component of finance costs in income statement. In 
cash flow statement, payments for the principal portion of the lease 
liability are recognized as financing cash flow while payments for interest 
portion of lease liability, short-term leases, and variable amounts not 
included in the measurement of the lease liability, are classified within 
operating cash flow.
The Group as a lessor 
At inception of a lease contract, the Group makes an assessment 
whether the lease is a finance lease or an operating lease. If the lease 
transfers substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership 
of the asset, it is considered to be a finance lease; if not, the lease is 
considered to be an operating lease. The Group has only a minor amount 
of operating lease contracts, whereby the lease payments are recognized 
on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
UPM Financial Report 2025 306
5.3 Financial assets and liabilities by category
Financial assets and liabilities recognized in the balance sheet include 
cash and cash equivalents, loans and other financial receivables, 
investments in securities, trade receivables, trade payables, loans, bank 
overdrafts and derivatives.
Classification of financial assets into different measurement 
categories depends on the contractual cash flow characteristics and the 
business model for managing the financial asset. The measurement 
category of each financial asset is determined at inception. Financial 
assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the 
balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right in all 
circumstances to offset the recognized amounts and there is an intention 
to settle on a net basis or realize the asset and settle the liability 
simultaneously. Financial assets are derecognized when the rights to 
receive cash flows from the financial assets have expired or have been 
transferred, and the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and 
rewards of ownership.
Financial assets and liabilities by category at the end of 2025 
€ million
Fair value through 
profit and loss
Equity instruments 
at fair value 
through OCI
Derivatives under 
hedge accounting
Financial assets 
and liabilities at 
amortized cost Total
Financial assets at FVOCI  —  2,193  —  —  2,193 
Other non-current financial assets
Loans and receivables  —  —  —  6  6 
Derivatives  —  —  18  —  18 
 —  —  18  6  24 
Trade and other receivables  —  —  —  1,481  1,481 
Other current financial assets
Loans and receivables  —  —  —  1  1 
Derivatives  8  —  67  —  75 
Investment funds  1  —  —  —  1 
 9  —  67  1  78 
Cash and cash equivalents  —  —  —  715  715 
Total financial assets  9  2,193  85  2,203  4,490 
Non-current debt
Interest-bearing liabilities  —  —  —  3,528  3,528 
Derivatives  —  —  111  —  111 
 —  —  111  3,528  3,638 
Other non-current financial liabilities 
Other liabilities 1)  —  —  —  86  86 
Derivatives  —  —  4  —  4 
 —  —  4  86  90 
Current debt 
Interest-bearing liabilities  —  —  —  152  152 
Derivatives  1  —  2  —  3 
 1  —  2  152  156 
Trade and other payables  —  —  —  1,839  1,839 
Other current financial liabilities
Derivatives  4  —  33  —  37 
 4  —  33  —  37 
Total financial liabilities  6  —  150  5,605  5,761 
1) Consists mainly of non-current advances received and a put liability that is not estimated to mature within 12 months.
UPM Financial Report 2025 307
UPM Annual Report 2025306 307
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

Financial assets and liabilities by category at the end of 2024
€ million
Fair value through 
profit and loss
Equity instruments 
at fair value 
through OCI
Derivatives under 
hedge accounting
Financial assets 
and liabilities at 
amortized cost Total
Financial assets at FVOCI  —  2,247  —  —  2,247 
Other non-current financial assets
Loans and receivables  —  —  —  16  16 
Derivatives  1  —  27  —  28 
 1  —  27  16  44 
Trade and other receivables  —  —  —  1,929  1,929 
Other current financial assets
Loans and receivables  —  —  —  1  1 
Derivatives  9  —  58  —  67 
Investment funds  1  —  —  —  1 
 10  —  58  1  69 
Cash and cash equivalents  —  —  —  892  892 
Total financial assets  11  2,247  85  2,838  5,181 
Non-current debt
Interest-bearing liabilities  —  —  —  3,662  3,662 
Derivatives  —  —  84  —  84 
 —  —  84  3,662  3,747 
Other non-current financial liabilities 
Other liabilities 1)  —  —  —  153  153 
Derivatives  —  —  5  —  5 
 —  —  5  153  158 
Current debt 
Loans  —  —  —  152  152 
Derivatives  10  —  5  —  14 
 10  —  5  152  166 
Trade and other payables  —  —  —  1,938  1,938 
Other current financial liabilities
Derivatives  7  —  101  —  108 
 7  —  101  —  108 
Total financial liabilities  17  —  195  5,905  6,116 
1) Consists mainly of non-current advances received and a put liability that is not estimated to mature within 12 months.
The carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities 
approximate their fair value except for interest-bearing liabilities in non-
current debt. Their fair value amounted to €2,754 million (€2,898 million) 
at the end of 2025. For quoted bonds, the fair values are based on the 
quoted market value as of December 31. At the end of 2025, all bonds 
were quoted. 
For other non-current debt in interest-bearing liabilities fair values are 
estimated using the expected contractual future payments discounted at 
market interest rates and are categorized within level 2 of the fair value 
hierarchy.
Refer to » Note 5.2 Net debt, for further information on net debt and 
bonds.
UPM Financial Report 2025 308
Fair value measurement hierarchy for financial assets and liabilities
€ million 2025 2024
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Financial assets 
Investment funds  —  1  —  1  —  1  —  1 
Derivatives, non-qualifying hedges  —  8  —  8  —  10  —  10 
Derivatives under hedge accounting  —  85  —  85  1  85  —  85 
Financial assets at FVOCI  —  —  2,193  2,193  —  —  2,247  2,247 
Total  —  94  2,193  2,287  1  96  2,247  2,343 
Financial liabilities 
Derivatives, non-qualifying hedges  —  6  —  6  —  17  —  17 
Derivatives under hedge accounting  —  150  —  150  —  195  —  195 
Total  —  155  —  155  —  211  —  211 
There have been no transfers between levels in 2025 and 2024.
Accounting policies
Fair value through profit or loss
This category includes derivatives that do not qualify for hedge 
accounting and investments funds. They are measured at fair value and 
any gains or losses from subsequent measurement are recognized in the 
income statement. 
Equity instruments at fair value through OCI
This category includes mainly UPM’s energy shareholdings. These assets 
are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. Refer to 
» Note 4.3 Financial assets at FVOCI
Financial assets at amortized cost
This category comprises loan receivables with fixed or determinable 
payments that are not quoted in an active market, as well as trade and 
other receivables, and cash and cash equivalents. They are included in 
non-current assets unless they mature within 12 months of the balance 
sheet date. Cash and cash equivalents are always classified as current 
assets. Loan receivables that have a fixed maturity are measured at 
amortized cost using the effective interest method. Loan receivables 
without fixed maturity date are measured at amortized cost. As soon as a 
loan receivables or cash and cash equivalents are originated or purchased, 
a loss allowance for 12-month expected credit losses are recognized in 
profit or loss. If credit risk increases significantly, full lifetime expected credit 
losses are recognized in profit or loss. The credit loss model applied to trade 
receivables is described in » Note 4.6 Working capital.
Derivatives under hedge accounting
All derivatives are initially and continuously recognized at fair value in the 
balance sheet. Gains and losses on remeasurement of derivatives used for 
hedging purposes are recognized in accordance with the accounting 
principles described in » Note 6.2 Derivatives and hedge accounting.
Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost
This category includes debt, trade payables and other financial liabilities.  
Refer to » Note 5.2 Net debt, for further information.
The different levels of fair value hierarchy used in fair value estimation are 
defined as follows:
Fair values under level 1
Quoted prices (unadjusted) traded in active markets for identical assets 
or liabilities. Derivatives include futures and commodity forwards traded in 
exchange.
Fair values under level 2
Observable inputs are used as basis for fair value calculations either 
directly (prices) or indirectly (derived from prices). If all significant inputs 
required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is 
included in level 2. For investment funds, the valuation is based on quoted 
prices (unadjusted) for identical assets in markets that are not active. For 
derivatives, level 2 include OTC derivatives like forward foreign exchange 
contracts, foreign currency options, interest and currency swaps and 
commodity swaps. Specific valuation techniques used to value financial 
instruments at level 2 include the following methods:
Interest forward rate agreements (FRA) are fair valued based 
on quoted market rates on the balance sheet date. Forward foreign 
exchange contracts are fair valued based on the contract forward rates at 
the balance sheet date. Foreign currency options are fair valued based on 
quoted market rates and market volatility rates on the balance sheet date 
by using the Black&Scholes option valuation model. Interest and currency 
swap instruments are fair valued as present value of the estimated future 
cash flows based on observable yield curves. Commodity swaps are fair 
valued based on quoted forward prices on the balance sheet date.
An embedded derivative that is by nature a foreign currency forward 
contract is valuated at market forward exchange rates and is included in 
level 2. Embedded derivatives are monitored by the Group and the fair 
UPM Financial Report 2025 309
UPM Annual Report 2025308 309
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

value changes are reported in other operating income in the income 
statement.
Fair values under level 3
Financial assets or liabilities of which fair values are not based on 
observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) are classified under 
level 3. This category include UPM’s energy shareholdings and forest 
assets. Fair valuations are performed at least quarterly by respective 
business areas or functions. Fair valuations are reviewed by the Group 
finance management and overseen by the Audit Committee. 
Refer to » Note 4.3 Financial assets at FVOCI and » Note 4.2 Forest 
assets.
5.4 Financial income and expenses
€ million 2025 2024
Exchange rate gains and losses
Derivatives  12  -31 
Exchange gains and losses on financial liabilities measured at amortized costs  48  -11 
Exchange gains and losses on financial assets measured at amortized costs  -57  37 
Other exchange rate gains and losses 1)  41  0 
 44  -6 
Fair value changes
Fair value gains and losses on derivatives designated as fair value hedges  -20  16 
Fair value adjustment of debt attributable to interest rate risk  18  -17 
 -1  -1 
Total  43  -7 
Interest and other finance income and costs, net
Interest expense on lease liabilities  -26  -24 
Interest expense on other financial liabilities measured at amortized cost  -57  -47 
Interest income (expense) on derivatives  -21  -40 
Interest income on loans, receivables and cash  19  31 
Dividend income from financial assets at FVOCI  5  2 
Impairment charges of associates and joint ventures  —  -2 
Other financial income and expenses, net  -23  -17 
 -102  -97 
Total  -59  -104 
1) Other exchange rate gains and losses include €41 million exchange rate gains relating to capital repatriation from subsidiaries in 2025.
Net gains and losses on derivatives included in the operating profit
€ million 2025 2024
Cash flow hedges reclassified from hedging reserve  85  -7 
Non-qualifying hedges  18  -25 
Total  102  -33 
Foreign exchange gains and losses in the operating profit excluding non-qualifying hedges
€ million 2025 2024
Sales  34  -5 
Other operating income  -37  -9 
Total  -4  -14 
UPM Financial Report 2025 310
5.5 Share capital and reserves
The company has one series of shares and each share carries one vote. 
There are no specific terms related to the shares. In 2025, UPM carried out 
a share buy-back program and repurchased a total of 6,000,000 of its 
own shares, which were subsequently cancelled. At  December 31, 2025, 
the number of the company’s shares was 527,735,699. The shares do not 
have any nominal counter value. The shares are included within the book 
entry system for securities.
Share capital
 € million 2025 2024
Number of shares (1,000)  527,736  533,736 
Share capital, € million  890  890 
Treasury shares
At  December 31, 2025, the company held 411,653 (411,653) of its own 
shares, 0.08% (0.08%) of the total number of shares.
Reserves
€ million 2025 2024
Fair value reserve  1,574  1,661 
Hedging reserve  28  -10 
Share-based payments reserve  19  26 
Total other reserves  1,622  1,678 
Reserve for invested non-restricted equity  1,273  1,273 
Translation reserve  15  657 
Total reserves  2,909  3,608 
Fair value reserve
This reserve represents the cumulative net change in the fair value of 
investments in equity securities comprising mainly of the fair value 
change of the energy shareholdings. Amounts are recycled only within 
equity upon the disposal of the asset.
Hedging reserve
This reserve comprises the cumulative net change in the fair value of the 
effective portion of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged 
transactions that have not yet occurred and the cost of hedging when 
recognized in OCI. Amounts are recognized in profit or loss when the 
associated hedged transactions affect profit or loss or as part of the 
acquisition cost of property, plant and equipment.
Share-based payments reserve
The share-based payments reserve is used to recognize the fair value at 
the grant date of the share incentive plans, Performance Share Plan, 
Restricted Share Plan and Deferred Bonus Plan, over their vesting period.
Reserve for invested non-restricted equity
Reserve for invested non-restricted equity includes, under the Companies’ 
Act, the exercise value of shareholders’ investments in the company 
unless otherwise decided by the company. 
Translation reserve
This reserve includes the foreign currency differences arising from the 
translation of foreign operations, and the effective result of transactions 
that hedge the Group’s net investments in foreign operations. There were 
no reclassifications from the translation reserve to profit or loss during the 
period resulting from inefficiency of net investment hedges.
Accounting policies 
Transaction costs directly relating to the issue of new shares or share 
options are recognized, net of tax, in equity as a reduction in the proceeds. 
Where any Group company purchases the parent company’s shares 
(treasury shares), the consideration paid, including any directly 
attributable incremental costs (net of tax), is deducted from equity 
attributable to the owners of the parent company until the shares are 
cancelled or reissued. Where such shares are subsequently reissued, any 
consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental 
transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity 
attributable to the owners of the parent company.
UPM Financial Report 2025 311
UPM Annual Report 2025310 311
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

Hedging reserve
€ million
Currency cash 
flow hedges
Electricity 
purchase and 
sales hedges
Cost of 
hedging Tax Total
2025
Hedging reserve, at January 1  -40  29  0  2  -10 
Amounts reclassified to profit and loss  -37  -51  3  17  -68 
Change in fair value of hedging instruments recognized in OCI  99  39  -6  -26  106 
Hedging reserve, at December 31  22  16  -2  -8  28 
€ million
Currency cash 
flow hedges
Electricity 
purchase and 
sales hedges
Cost of 
hedging Tax Total
2024
Hedging reserve, at January 1  13  -120  -3  21  -88 
Amounts reclassified to profit and loss  2  2  3  -1  6 
Change in fair value of hedging instruments recognized in OCI  -55  146  -1  -18  72 
Hedging reserve, at December 31  -40  29  0  2  -10 
UPM Financial Report 2025 312
6. Risk management
6.1 Financial risk management
The objective of financial risk management is to protect the Group 
from unfavorable changes in financial markets and thus help to 
secure profitability. The objectives and limits for financing activities 
are defined in the Group Treasury Policy approved by the Board of 
Directors. In financial risk management various financial instruments are 
used within the limits specified in the Group Treasury Policy. Only such 
instruments which market value and risk profile can be continuously and 
reliably monitored are used for this purpose. 
Financing services are provided to the Group entities and financial risk 
management carried out by the central treasury department, Treasury 
and Risk Management.
Foreign exchange risk
As a consequence of the global nature of its business, UPM is exposed to 
risks associated with changes in exchange rates, primarily with respect to 
USD, UYU, GBP and CNY. Foreign exchange risk arises from contracted 
and expected commercial future payment flows (transaction exposure), 
changes in value of recognized assets and liabilities denominated in 
foreign currency and changes in the value of assets and liabilities in 
foreign subsidiaries (translation exposure). The objective of foreign 
exchange risk management is to limit the uncertainty created by changes 
in foreign exchange rates on the future value of cash flows earnings and 
in the Group’s balance sheet. Changing exchange rates can also have 
indirect effects, such as change in relative competitiveness between 
currency regions.
Transaction exposure
The Group hedges transaction exposure related to highly probable future 
commercial foreign currency cash flows on a rolling basis over the next 
12-month period based on forecasts by the respective business areas. 
Transaction risk arises from the changes in currency rates of highly 
probable transactions, which are expected to take place in currencies 
other than the functional currency of the entity. The Group’s policy is to 
hedge an average of 50% of its estimated net risk currency cash flow. 
Some highly probable cash flows have been hedged for longer than 12 
months ahead while deviating from the risk neutral hedging level at the 
same time. At  December 31, 2025, 52% (52%) of the forecast 12-month 
currency flow was hedged.
The Group enters into external forward contracts, which are 
designated at Group level as hedges of foreign exchange risk of specific 
future foreign currency flows. Cash flow hedge accounting is applied when 
possible. If hedge accounting is not possible, fair value changes of the 
hedging instrument are recognized through profit and loss immediately.
At the end of 2025, UPM’s estimated net risk currency flow for the next 
12 months was €1,456 million (1,815 million).
The weighted hedging rate by currency against EUR were USD 1.16, 
UYU 49.01 and GBP 0.87.
In addition to commercial foreign currency flow, the Group has hedged 
risk currency flow related to investments. Cash flow hedge accounting is 
applied. At the end of 2025, the hedged net risk currency flow was €8 
million (€2 million). 
€ million
12 months net risk currency flow and hedges 
2025
Hedges Currency flow
USD UYU GBP Other
-300
0
300
600
900
1200
1500
1800
€ million
12 months net risk currency flow and hedges 
2024
Hedges Currency flow
USD UYU GBP Others
-300
0
300
600
900
1200
1500
1800
Translation exposure
The Group has several currency denominated assets and liabilities on its 
balance sheet such as foreign currency bonds, loans and deposits, Group 
internal loans and cash in other currencies than functional currencies. 
UPM aims to fully hedge this balance sheet translation exposure, 
however, UPM might have unhedged balance sheet exposures within the 
limits set in Group Treasury Policy.
At  December 31, 2025, the unhedged balance sheet exposures in net 
of interest-bearing assets and liabilities amounted to €10 million (7 
million). Hedge accounting is not applied and all fair value changes of 
hedging instruments are recognized through profit and loss immediately.
The Group has also accounts receivable and payable balances 
denominated in foreign currencies and UPM aims to fully hedge the net 
exposure in main currencies. The nominal values of the hedging 
instruments in net of accounts payable and receivable hedging were 
€242 million (333 million). Hedge accounting is not applied and all fair 
value changes of hedging instruments are recognized through profit and 
loss immediately.
UPM Financial Report 2025 313
UPM Annual Report 2025312 313
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

UPM's net investments in foreign subsidiaries are also subject to 
foreign currency translation differences. The exchange rate differences 
arising from translation of foreign subsidiaries are accumulated as a 
separate component of equity in the translation reserve relate mainly to 
USD, CNY and GBP. Currency exposure arising from the net investment 
in foreign subsidiaries is generally not hedged. However, at  December 31, 
2025, part of the foreign exchange risk associated with the net 
investments was hedged, major ones in China and Uruguay, and net 
investment hedge accounting has been applied. The average weighted 
hedging rate of these hedges against EUR were China CNY 8.32 and 
Uruguay USD 1.14.
Derivatives used for hedging translation risks are external forward 
contracts, cross currency swaps and currency options.
Foreign exchange risk sensitivity
The following table illustrates the effect to profit before tax due to 
recognized balance sheet items in foreign currency and the effect to 
equity arising mainly from foreign currency forwards used to hedge 
foreign currency flows.
Profit before tax Equity
€ million 2025 2024 2025 2024
EUR strengthens by 10%
USD  -3  1  94  102 
UYU  —  —  -15  -14 
CNY  1  1  11  13 
GBP  —  —  6  12 
EUR weakens by 10%
USD  3  -1  -94  -102 
UYU  —  —  15  14 
CNY  -1  -1  -11  -13 
GBP  —  —  -6  -12 
The following assumptions were made when calculating the sensitivity to 
changes in the foreign exchange risk:
• A major part of non-derivative financial instruments (such as cash and 
cash equivalents, trade receivables, debt and trade payables) are either 
directly denominated in the functional currency or are transferred to 
the functional currency through the use of derivatives i.e. the balance 
sheet position is close to zero. Exchange rate fluctuations have 
therefore minor or no effects on profit or loss.
• The table includes effect of foreign currency forward contracts that 
hedge commercial flows or investments or net investments in foreign 
subsidiaries, and which have an effective hedge relationship.
• The table includes also effect of foreign currency forward contracts 
that are not part of the effective cash flow hedge having an effect on 
profit.
• The table excludes effect of foreign currency denominated future cash 
flows.
Interest rate risk
The interest-bearing liabilities and assets expose the Group to interest 
rate risk, namely repricing and fair value interest rate risk caused by 
interest rate movements. According to the Group Treasury Policy the 
interest rate exposure is defined as the difference in interest rate 
sensitivity between assets and liabilities compared to a benchmark 
portfolio with a 6-month duration. The total interest rate exposure is a net 
debt portfolio which includes all interest bearing assets and liabilities and 
derivatives that are used to hedge the aforementioned balance sheet 
items. The policy sets risk limits and allowed deviation from 6-month 
benchmark net debt duration level. UPM has decided to deviate from its 
policy benchmark and extend the duration of net debt. At December 31, 
2025 the duration of net debt was 24 (30) months. The Group uses 
interest rate derivatives, such as interest rate swaps, interest rate futures 
and cross currency swaps, to change net debt duration.
The table below shows the nominal value of interest rate position 
exposed to interest rate risk in each significant currency. The position 
includes all cash balances, investment funds, interest bearing assets and 
liabilities and derivatives used to hedge these items. The positive/negative 
position indicates a net liability/asset position by currency and that the 
Group is exposed to repricing and/or fair value interest risk by interest 
rate movements in that currency. Table excludes leasing transactions.
Nominal values of the Group’s net debt by currency 
including derivatives
€ billion 2025 2024
EUR  2.0  1.7 
USD  0.5  0.8 
CNY  -0.2  -0.3 
Others  -0.1  -0.2 
Total  2.2  2.1 
Most of the interest rate derivatives hedging interest on long-term debt 
meet the requirement of fair value hedge accounting.
Interest rate risk sensitivity
The following table illustrates the effect to profit before tax mainly as 
a result of changes in interest expense on floating rate debt.
Profit before tax
€ million 2025 2024
Interest rate of net debt 100 basis points higher  -11  -12 
Interest rate of net debt 100 basis points lower  11  12 
UPM Financial Report 2025 314
The following assumptions were made when calculating the sensitivity to 
changes in interest rates:
• The variation of interest rate is assumed to be 100 basis points parallel 
shift in applicable interest rate curves.
• In the case of fair value hedges designated for hedging interest rate risk, 
the changes in the fair values of the hedged items and the hedging 
instruments attributable to the interest rate movements balance out 
almost completely in the income statement in the same period. 
However, the possible ineffectiveness has an effect on the profit of the 
year.
• Cash balances are excluded.
• Investment funds are excluded.
• Leasing transactions are excluded.
• Fixed rate debt that is measured at amortized cost and is not 
designated to fair value hedge relationship is not subject to interest rate 
risk sensitivity.
• Floating rate debt that are measured at amortized cost and not 
designated as hedged items are included in interest rate sensitivity 
analysis.
• Changes in the market interest rate of interest rate derivatives (interest 
rate futures, swaps and cross currency swaps) that are not designated 
as hedging instruments in hedge accounting affect the financial 
income or expenses (net gains or losses from remeasurement of the 
financial assets and liabilities to fair value) and are therefore included in 
the income-related sensitivity analysis.
Electricity price risk
UPM is hedging the price of electricity consumption and production. 
Electricity prices rely on weather, fossil fuel and emissions allowance 
prices as well as the balance of supply and demand. The Group’s 
sensitivity to electricity market price is dependent on the electricity 
production and consumption levels and the hedging levels. The inherent 
price risks arise from the daily sales and purchases of electricity from the 
power market with spot prices, and the hedging objective is to reduce the 
earnings volatility that arises from electricity prices.
UPM considers Nordic system and electricity price area differential 
(EPAD) for Finland products perfect hedges for corresponding electricity 
price risk components in Finland. The components of electricity price risk 
in the Nordic power market are hedged by entering into System and 
EPAD electricity derivative contracts, mostly Nordic main exchange 
futures and bilateral forwards. In January 2025, Euronext and Nasdaq 
announced that Euronext will acquire Nasdaq’s Nordic power futures 
business. The change is expected to take place during the first half of 
2026. System and EPAD prices are considered as separately identifiable 
and reliably measurable risk components in electricity sales and 
purchase contracts as well as in the hedging instruments, as a quoted 
price is available. Fair value changes of designated system and EPAD 
derivatives are offsetting electricity sales and purchase price changes. 
The share of system component covers approximately 80-90% and the 
share of EPAD component covers 10-20% of the changes in electricity 
sales and purchase prices.
The electricity price risk in the Central European power market is 
hedged by entering into European Electricity Exchange futures. Products 
used for hedging hedge the entire price risk for the underlying price area.
The time frame hedged has historically been approximately rolling 5 
years. Hedging level has been typically higher for the nearest years and 
lower for the latter years. Hedging level for a certain year has historically 
varied between 0-80%. UPM constantly updates its electricity production 
and consumption forecasts. Hedging level is calculated based on the 
most recent available information about the electricity production and 
consumption forecast.
The Group applies cash flow hedge accounting for the hedging 
relationships when it hedges its electricity price risk. In small amounts, the 
Group is also trading electricity forwards and futures. As well as hedging, 
proprietary trading risks are monitored on a daily basis. Value-At-Risk 
levels are set to limit the maximum risk at any given time. Cumulative 
maximum loss is limited by stop-loss limits.
Electricity derivatives price sensitivity
Sensitivity analysis for financial electricity derivatives is based on position 
at the end of financial year. Sensitivities change over time as the overall 
hedging and trading positions change. Underlying physical positions are 
not included in the sensitivity analysis. Sensitivity analysis is calculated 
separately for the hedge accounted and non-hedge accounted volumes. 
In the analysis it is assumed that forward quotation for Nasdaq 
Commodities, Euronext, EEX and bilateral derivatives would change €5/ 
MWh throughout the period UPM has derivatives. 
€ million Effect 2025 2024
+/–EUR 5/MWh in electricity 
forward quotations
Effect on profit before tax +/-  —  — 
Effect on equity +/-  27.3  31.0 
6.2 Derivatives and hedge accounting
The Group uses financial derivatives to manage currency, interest rate 
and commodity price risks.
Refer to » Note 6.1 Financial risk management.
Accounting policies
All derivatives are initially and continuously recognized at fair value in the 
balance sheet. The fair value gain or loss is recognized through the 
income statement or other comprehensive income depending on whether 
the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and on the nature of 
the item being hedged. Certain derivatives are designated at inception 
either hedges of the fair value of recognized assets or liabilities (fair value 
hedge), hedges of highly probable forecasted transactions (cash flow 
hedge), or hedges of net investments in foreign subsidiaries with other 
than the EUR as their functional currency (net investment hedge). 
UPM Financial Report 2025 315
UPM Annual Report 2025314 315
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

Derivative fair values on the balance sheet are classified as non-current 
when the remaining maturity is more than 12 months and as current when 
the remaining maturity is less than 12 months.
For hedge accounting purposes, UPM documents the relationship 
between the hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as the risk 
management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge 
transactions at the inception date. This process includes linking all 
derivatives designated as hedges to specific assets and liabilities or 
forecast transactions. The Group also documents its assessment, both at 
the hedge inception and on an on-going basis, as to whether the hedge is 
highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the 
hedged items.
Certain derivatives, while considered to be economical hedges for 
UPM’s financial risk management purposes, do not qualify for hedge 
accounting. Such derivatives are recognized at fair value through the 
income statement in other operating income or under financial items.
Cash flow hedges
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are 
designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognized in other 
comprehensive income. Cost of hedging, meaning forward points of 
derivative forward contracts accounted as cash flow hedges, is 
recognized as a part of the hedging reserve. Amounts deferred in equity 
are transferred to the income statement and classified as income or 
expense in the same period as that in which the hedged item affects the 
income statement (for example, when the forecast external sale to the 
Group that is hedged takes place).
When the forecasted transaction that is hedged results in the 
recognition of a fixed asset, gains and losses previously deferred in equity 
are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the 
acquisition cost and depreciated over the useful lives of the assets. 
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no 
longer meets hedge accounting criteria, any cumulative gain or loss 
existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognized when 
the committed or forecasted transaction is ultimately recognized in the 
income statement. However, if a forecasted transaction is no longer 
expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity 
is immediately recognized to the income statement.
In currency cash flow hedging, the hedging instrument is made in the 
same currency as the hedged item and hence the fair value change of the 
hedging instrument are expected to effectively offset the fair value 
changes generated by the hedged items. Thereby the hedge ratio between 
the instrument and the cash flow is 1:1. Hedge accounting ceases in the 
case that the forecasted cash flows are no longer expected to occur. The 
Group has not recognized significant sources of ineffectiveness that can 
reasonably be expected to take place.
Also in electricity price hedges, hedge accounting ceases in the case 
that the forecasted cash flows are no longer expected to occur.
Hedges of net investments in foreign subsidiaries
The fair value changes of forward exchange contracts used in hedging 
net investments that reflect the change in spot exchange rates are 
recognized in other comprehensive income within translation reserve. Any 
gain or loss relating to the interest portion of forward exchange contracts 
is recognized immediately in the income statement under financial items. 
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income 
statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold.
The hedging instrument is always made in the same currency as the 
hedged investment, hence the hedge ratio in net investment hedging is 1:1. 
For hedging of net investments, hedge accounting ceases in the situation 
where the hedged item is disposed or sold during the duration of the 
hedging instrument.
Fair value hedges
The Group applies fair value hedge accounting for hedging fixed interest 
risk on debt. Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated 
and qualify as fair value hedges and that are prospectively highly effective 
are recorded in the income statement under financial items, along with 
any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liabilities that are 
attributable to the hedged risk. The carrying amounts of hedged items 
and the fair values of hedging instruments are included in interest-bearing 
assets or liabilities.
Derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges 
mature at the same time as hedged items. If the hedge no longer meets 
the criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount 
of a hedged item for which the effective interest method is used is 
amortized to profit or loss over the expected period to maturity.
Hedge accounting ceases in fair value hedge of fixed interest risk in 
case of early redemption of such debt, which is hedged under fair value 
hedge accounting. The Group has not recognized significant sources of 
ineffectiveness that can reasonably be expected to take place.
Financial counterparty risk
The financial instruments the Group has agreed with banks and financial 
institutions contain an element of risk of the counterparties being unable 
to meet their obligations. According to the Group Treasury Policy, 
derivative instruments and investments of cash funds may be made only 
with counterparties meeting certain creditworthiness criteria. The Group 
minimizes counterparty risk also by using a number of major banks and 
financial institutions. Creditworthiness of counterparties is constantly 
monitored by Treasury and Risk Management. Due to the tight 
counterparty criteria, credit risk does not dominate the fair valuation of 
financial instruments.
UPM Financial Report 2025 316
Net fair values of derivatives
Positive fair 
values
Negative fair 
values Net fair values
Positive fair 
values
Negative fair 
values Net fair values
€ million 2025 2024
Foreign exchange risk
Forward foreign exchange contracts 
Cash flow hedges  26  -5  21  16  -54  -38 
Net investment hedge  9  -1  8  9  -25  -16 
Non-qualifying hedges  8  -6  3  10  -17  -7 
Cross currency swaps 
Non-qualifying hedges  —  —  —  —  —  — 
Derivatives hedging foreign exchange risk  44  -12  32  35  -96  -61 
Interest rate risk 
Interest rate swaps 
Fair value hedges  15  -74  -59  21  -74  -53 
Non-qualifying hedges  —  —  —  —  —  — 
Cross currency swaps 
Fair value hedges  —  -39  -39  —  -15  -15 
Non-qualifying hedges  —  —  —  —  —  — 
Derivatives hedging interest risk  15  -113  -98  21  -89  -68 
Commodity risk 
Electricity sales 
Cash flow hedges  34  -22  12  18  -26  -8 
Non-qualifying hedges  —  —  —  —  —  — 
Electricity purchase 
Cash flow hedges  —  —  —  —  —  — 
Other commodities 
Cash flow hedges  —  -8  -8  21  —  21 
Non-qualifying hedges  0  —  —  —  —  — 
Derivatives hedging commodity risk  34  -30  4  39  -26  13 
Total  93  -155  -62  95  -211  -116 
No derivatives are subject to offsetting in the Group’s financial statements. All derivatives are under ISDA or similar master netting agreement, which are applied on conditional terms, such as 
case of breach of contract or bankruptcy. The values of derivatives are recognized as gross on the balance sheet and a breakdown by category of instruments is presented in » Note 5.3 
Financial assets and liabilities by category.
Nominal amounts of derivatives
€ million 2025 2024
Interest rate futures  1,319  1,134 
Interest rate swaps  1,668  1,711 
Forward foreign exchange contracts  3,192  3,617 
Currency options  — 
Cross currency swaps  114  129 
Commodity contracts  401  551 
Cash collaterals pledged mainly for exchange traded contracts totaled 
€32 (108) million of which €31 (107) million relate to commodity 
contracts and €1 (1) million to interest rate futures. The open market value of 
exchange traded contracts on the balance sheet is minor. Cash collaterals 
are included in Other receivables. Refer to » Note 4.6 Working capital. 
Net fair values of derivatives calculated by counterparty
€ million
Positive fair 
values
Negative fair 
values
Net fair 
values
2025  63  -125  -62 
2024  43  -159  -116 
UPM Financial Report 2025 317
UPM Annual Report 2025316 317
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

Timing of nominal amounts of derivatives 2025 Within 1 year Between 1–5 years Later than 5 years Total
€ million 2025
Foreign exchange risk
Forward foreign exchange contracts
Cash flow hedges  1,347  1  —  1,348 
Net investment hedge  696  —  —  696 
Non-qualifying hedges  1,147  1  —  1,149 
Cross currency swaps
Non-qualifying hedges  —  114  —  114 
Interest rate risk
Interest rate swaps
Fair value hedges  —  1,068  600  1,668 
Cross currency swaps
Fair value hedges  —  114  —  114 
Interest rate futures
Non-qualifying hedges  1,319  —  —  1,319 
Commodity risk
Electricity sales
Cash flow hedges  207  77  —  284 
Electricity purchase
Cash flow hedges  51  7  —  58 
Other commodities
Cash flow hedges  40  15  —  55 
Non-qualifying hedges  4  — —  4 
Timing of nominal amounts of derivatives 2024 Within 1 year Between 1–5 years Later than 5 years Total
€ million 2024
Foreign exchange risk
Forward foreign exchange contracts
Cash flow hedges  1,679  11  —  1,690 
Net investment hedge  783  —  —  783 
Non-qualifying hedges  1,099  46  —  1,145 
Cross currency swaps
Non-qualifying hedges  —  129  —  129 
Interest rate risk
Interest rate swaps
Fair value hedges  —  1,111  600  1,711 
Cross currency swaps
Fair value hedges  —  129  —  129 
Interest rate futures
Non-qualifying hedges  1,134  —  —  1,134 
Commodity risk
Electricity sales
Cash flow hedges  285  69  —  354 
Electricity purchase
Cash flow hedges  68  30  —  98 
Other commodities
Cash flow hedges  56  17  —  73 
Non-qualifying hedges  26  —  —  26 
The nominals of cross currency swaps are included in both foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk.
UPM Financial Report 2025 318
7. Income tax
7.1 Tax on profit for the year
Income tax
In 2025, tax on profit for the year amounted to €200 million (37 million). 
The effective tax rate was 28.9% (7.4%). The Group's effective tax rate is 
affected by the income not subject to tax from subsidiaries operating in 
tax free zone in Uruguay and by the German tax rate being higher than in 
Finland. In 2025, the effective tax rate was impacted by the amendment 
to Germany's corporate income tax legislation, which was enacted in 
2025. The change in the applicable tax rate impacted mainly the deferred 
tax assets and increased tax expenses by €65 million. In 2024, the 
effective tax rate was significantly impacted by the impairment on assets 
in biochemicals refinery in Leuna, Germany, and restructuring charges 
and impairment charges related to the closure of Hürth newsprint mill, the 
closure of Nordland fine paper machine 3 and the closure of 
Kaltenkirchen factory in Germany. 
Income tax
€ million 2025 2024
Current tax expense  108  122 
Change in deferred taxes  92  -85 
Total  200  37 
Tax rate reconciliation
€ million 2025 2024
Profit before tax  690  500 
Computed tax at Finnish statutory rate of 20%  138  100 
Difference between Finnish and foreign rates  10  -6 
Tax-exempt income  -41  -91 
Non-deductible expenses  15  37 
Withholding taxes  3  2 
Tax loss with no tax benefit  18  8 
Results of associates  0  0 
Change in tax legislation  65  — 
Change in recoverability of deferred tax assets  -6  — 
Utilization of previously unrecognized tax losses  -1  -1 
Other items  0  -13 
Total income taxes  200  37 
Effective tax rate, %  28.9 %  7.4 %
Accounting policies
The Group’s income tax expense comprises current tax and deferred tax. 
Current tax is calculated on the taxable result for the period based on the 
tax rules prevailing in the countries where the Group operates and 
includes tax adjustments for previous periods and withholding taxes 
deducted at source on intra-group transactions. Tax expense is 
recognized in the income statement, unless it relates to items that have 
been recognized in equity or as part of other comprehensive income. In 
these instances, the related tax expense is also recognized in equity or 
other comprehensive income, respectively.
Key estimates and judgments
The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions and 
the calculation of the Group’s tax expense and income tax liabilities 
involves a degree of estimation and judgment. Tax balances reflect 
a current understanding and interpretation of existing tax laws. 
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with 
respect of situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to 
interpretation and adjusts income tax liabilities where appropriate.
The Group is within the scope of the OECD Pillar Two model rules. 
Pillar Two legislation was enacted in Finland in 2023, the jurisdiction in 
which UPM is incorporated, and came into effect from January 1, 2024. 
The Group applies the IAS 12 exception to recognizing and disclosing 
information about deferred tax assets and liabilities related to Pillar Two 
income taxes. The entities in scope will be liable to pay a top-up tax for the 
difference between their GloBE effective tax rate per jurisdiction and the 
15% minimum rate. 
The Group has performed an assessment of its potential exposure to 
Pillar Two income taxes for year 2025 based on the 2025 financial 
information for the constituent entities in the Group. The jurisdictions in 
which the Group operates are expected to be either within the transitional 
safe harbors or to have jurisdictional GloBE effective tax rates above 15%. 
The Pillar Two legislation had no impact on income taxes for the current 
reporting period. The assessment is based on currently available 
information and analysis regarding the interpretation of the rules, for 
which additional guidance is still being developed by the OECD.
The Group expects that the main jurisdiction for possible exposure to 
additional Pillar Two income taxes in the future is Uruguay. The financial 
impact will depend on the results of the Uruguay subsidiaries and the 
decrease in the substance based income exclusion in accordance with 
the OECD Pillar Two model rules in subsequent years.
UPM Financial Report 2025 319
UPM Annual Report 2025318 319
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

7.2 Deferred tax
€ million 2025 2024 2023
Deferred tax assets
Intangible assets and property, plant and 
equipment  119  134  66 
Inventories  61  72  77 
Retirement benefit liabilities and provisions  75  95  94 
Other temporary differences  154  192  175 
Tax losses and tax credits carried forward  224  276  242 
Offset against liabilities  -221  -243  -224 
Total  413  526  431 
Deferred tax liabilities
Intangible assets and property, plant and 
equipment  -291  -330  -265 
Forest assets  -461  -440  -412 
Retirement benefit assets  -1  —  — 
Other temporary differences  -160  -145  -163 
Offset against assets  221  243  224 
Total  -692  -673  -616 
Net deferred tax assets (liabilities)  -279  -146  -185 
Movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities
€ million 2025 2024
Carrying value, at January 1  -146  -185 
Charged to income statement  -92  85 
Charged to other comprehensive income  -41  -36 
Companies acquired  -15  -4 
Exchange rate adjustments  15  -6 
Net deferred tax assets (liabilities)  -279  -146 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally 
enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities 
and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
Tax charge to other comprehensive income
Before tax Tax After tax Before tax Tax After tax
€ million 2025 2024
Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit plans  50  -18  31  7  -2  4 
Financial assets at FVOCI  -83  -4  -87  -31  -16  -47 
Translation differences  -724  —  -724  346  —  346 
Cash flow hedges  48  -9  38  98  -20  78 
Net investment hedges  46  -9  37  -16  3  -13 
Total  -664  -41  -705  403  -35  368 
Key estimates and judgments
Recognized deferred tax assets
The recognition of deferred tax assets requires management judgment as 
to whether it is probable that such balances will be utilized and/or 
reversed in the foreseeable future. At  December 31, 2025, net operating 
loss carry-forwards for which the Group has recognized a deferred tax 
asset amounted to €895 million (904 million in 2024 and €841 million in 
2023), of which €845 million (865 million in 2024 and €772 million in 
2023) was attributable to German subsidiaries. These losses primarily 
relate to restructuring activities, mill closures, and profit improvement 
programs implemented in recent years, as well as non-current asset 
impairments resulting in as tax losses prior year. In Germany, net 
operating loss carry-forwards do not expire. The Group expects sufficient 
future taxable income to be available for the utilization of deferred tax 
assets. In other countries net operating loss carry-forwards expire at 
various dates and in varying amounts. 
Based on profit forecasts, it is probable that there will be sufficient 
future taxable profits available against which the tax losses and tax 
credits can be utilized.
The assumptions regarding future realization of tax benefits, and 
therefore the recognition of deferred tax assets, may change due to future 
operating performance of the Group, as well as other factors, some of 
which are outside of the control of the Group.
Unrecognized deferred tax assets and liabilities 
The net operating loss carry-forwards for which no deferred tax is 
recognized due to uncertainty of their utilization amounted to €946 
million (873 million) in 2025. These net operating loss carry-forwards are 
mainly attributable to certain German and French subsidiaries and do 
not expire, as well as to certain Uruguayan subsidiaries which expire at 
different times by the end of 2029. 
UPM Financial Report 2025 320
In addition, the Group has not recognized deferred tax assets on loss 
carry-forwards relating to closed Miramichi paper mill in Canada. These 
loss carry-forwards expire at different times and the majority of the loss 
carry-forwards expire by the end of 2029. 
In Uruguay, tax credits amounting to €143 million (151 million) have 
not been recognized due to uncertainty of their utilization.
The Group has not recognized deferred tax liability in respect of 
undistributed earnings of non-Finnish subsidiaries to the extent that it is 
probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable 
future. In addition, the Group has not recognized deferred tax liability for the 
undistributed earnings of Finnish subsidiaries and associates as such 
earnings can be distributed without any tax consequences.
Accounting policies
Deferred tax is calculated based on temporary differences between the 
carrying amounts and the taxable values of assets and liabilities and for 
tax loss carry-forwards to the extent that it is probable that these can be 
utilized against future taxable profits.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that 
have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date 
and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is 
realized or the deferred income tax liability is settled. 
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on 
investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except where 
the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the 
Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in 
the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized 
net where there is a legal right to set-off and an intention to settle on a net 
basis.
UPM Financial Report 2025 321
UPM Annual Report 2025320 321
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

8. Group structure
8.1 Business acquisitions and disposals
On April 1, 2025,  as a result of the exercise of a put option by a third party, 
UPM became contractually obligated to purchase shares in Kraftwerk 
Plattling GmbH, the owner of the power plant that had previously been 
leased by UPM. The acquired company has been included in the Group 
since the acquisition date. The transaction had no material impact on the 
balance sheet. The net assets acquired and the effects of the revenues 
and profit or loss are not considered material for disclosure purposes. 
On February 5, 2025, it was announced that UPM Adhesive Materials 
had acquired Metamark, a UK-based company to further accelerate its 
growth in the Graphics business. UPM Adhesive Materials' existing 
Graphics business complemented with Metamark will strengthen UPM 
Adhesive Materials’ overall competitiveness, bring major synergies and 
make UPM Adhesive Materials a significant player in the fast-growing, 
high value-added Graphics segment.
If the transaction had occurred on January 1, 2025, UPM’s sales for 
January–December 2025 would have been €9,661 million and profit for 
the period €491 million. These amounts have been calculated using the 
Group’s accounting policies and by adjusting the results of the 
subsidiaries to reflect the amortization that would have been charged 
assuming application of fair value adjustments to intangible assets, 
property plant and equipment and inventories from January 1, 2025, 
together with the consequential tax effects.
Details of the purchase consideration, the net assets acquired, and 
goodwill are as follows:
€ million
Cash paid  130 
Deferred consideration 0
Total purchase consideration 130
€ million
Other intangible assets  60 
Property, plant and equipment  3 
Leased assets  4 
Inventories  16 
Trade and other receivables  15 
Cash and cash equivalents  9 
Total assets 107
Deferred tax liabilities 15
Non-current debt 4
Current debt  51 
Trade and other payables  14 
Income tax payables  0 
Total liabilities 85
Net identifiable assets acquired  22 
Goodwill arising from acquisition 107
The fair value of trade and other receivables included trade receivables 
with a fair value of €13 million. At the date of acquisition, the gross 
contractual amount for trade receivables was €13 million, of which €0 
million was expected to be uncollectible.
Acquisition-related costs of €3 million are included in other operating 
expenses and are reported as items affecting comparability in UPM 
Adhesive Materials business area.
Information on the amounts of revenue and profit or loss of the 
acquiree since the acquisition date included in the consolidated income 
statement for the reporting period is not disclosed because it would be 
impracticable. The acquired business has been included in the Group 
since the acquisition date, and the effects of the revenues and profit or 
loss thereof are not considered material for disclosure purposes. 
Transactions with non-controlling interests
In 2025, UPM had a minor decrease in its non-controlling interests in 
Uruguay. In 2024, UPM did not have any change in its non-controlling 
interests.
UPM Financial Report 2025 322
Accounting policies
UPM consolidates acquired entities at the acquisition date which is when 
it gains control using the acquisition method. Consideration transferred is 
determined as the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities 
incurred and equity instruments issued including the fair value of a 
contingent consideration. Acquisition-related transaction costs are 
expensed as incurred. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and 
contingent liabilities assumed are measured initially at their fair values at 
the acquisition date. The Group measures any non-controlling interest in 
the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s 
proportionate share of the acquiree’s net assets.
The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-
controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value of 
any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the 
identifiable net assets of the subsidiary acquired is recorded as goodwill.
The assets, liabilities, income and expenses of subsidiaries with non-
controlling interests are consolidated line by line into the UPM 
consolidated financial statements. The proportion of the profit for the 
period, as well as the accumulated share of total equity belonging to non-
controlling interests are presented separately in the consolidated income 
statement and consolidated balance sheet. 
8.2 Principal subsidiaries and joint operations
Blandin Paper Company US 100.00 100.00
Blanvira S.A. UY 91.00 91.00
Cuecar S.A. UY 91.00 91.00
Forestal Oriental S.A. UY 100.00 100.00
Gebr. Lang GmbH Papierfabrik DE 100.00 100.00
Grafityp (UK) Limited GB 100.00 100.00
Grafityp Selfadhesive Products NV BE 100.00 100.00
LLC UPM Ukraine UA 100.00 100.00
Magenta Prime Limited1) GB 100.00 —
Metamark (UK) Limited1) GB 100.00 —
Metamark Group Holdings Limited1) GB 100.00 —
Myllykoski Oyj FI 100.00 100.00
Nordland Papier GmbH DE 100.00 100.00
NorService GmbH DE 100.00 100.00
Nortrans Speditionsgesellschaft mbH DE 100.00 100.00
Print Inform Japan K.K. JP 80.00 80.00
PT UPM Raflatac Indonesia ID 100.00 100.00
Rhein Papier GmbH DE 100.00 100.00
Tebetur S.A. UY 91.00 91.00
Tile Forestal S.A. UY 91.00 91.00
Trimwel Limited1) IE 100.00 —
UPM (China) Co. Ltd CN 100.00 100.00
UPM (Vietnam) Limited VN 100.00 100.00
UPM Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. SG 100.00 100.00
UPM Biochemicals GmbH DE 100.00 100.00
UPM Biochemicals Sales GmbH DE 100.00 100.00
UPM Communication Papers Oy FI 100.00 100.00
UPM Energy Oy FI 100.00 100.00
UPM GmbH DE 100.00 100.00
UPM OÜ EE 100.00 100.00
UPM Plywood Oy FI 100.00 100.00
UPM Pulp Sales Oy FI 100.00 100.00
Subsidiaries
Country of 
incorporation
Holding % 
     2025
Holding %
      2024 
UPM Financial Report 2025 323
UPM Annual Report 2025322 323
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

UPM Pulp, Inc. US 100.00 100.00
UPM Raflatac (China) Co., Ltd. CN 100.00 100.00
UPM Raflatac (S) Pte Ltd SG 100.00 100.00
UPM Raflatac (UK) Ltd. GB 100.00 100.00
UPM Raflatac Canada Holdings Inc. CA 100.00 100.00
UPM Raflatac Chile SpA CL 100.00 100.00
UPM Raflatac Co. Ltd. TH 100.00 100.00
UPM Raflatac GmbH DE 100.00 100.00
UPM Raflatac Iberica S.A. ES 100.00 100.00
UPM Raflatac Inc. US 100.00 100.00
UPM Raflatac Mexico S.A. de C.V. MX 100.00 100.00
UPM Raflatac NZ Limited NZ 100.00 100.00
UPM Raflatac Oy FI 100.00 100.00
UPM Raflatac Pty Ltd AU 100.00 100.00
UPM Raflatac S.r.l. AR 100.00 100.00
UPM Raflatac SAS FR 100.00 100.00
UPM Raflatac Sdn.Bhd. MY 100.00 100.00
UPM Raflatac South Africa (Pty) Ltd ZA 100.00 100.00
UPM Raflatac Sp. z o .o. PL 100.00 100.00
UPM S.A. UY 91.00 91.00
UPM Sähkönsiirto Oy FI 100.00 100.00
UPM Sales GmbH DE 100.00 100.00
UPM Sales Oy FI 100.00 100.00
UPM Specialty Papers Oy FI 100.00 100.00
UPM Trading (Shanghai) Co CN 100.00 100.00
UPM-Kymmene (Korea) Ltd KO 100.00 100.00
UPM-Kymmene (UK) Ltd GB 100.00 100.00
UPM-Kymmene Inc. US 100.00 100.00
UPM-Kymmene India Private Limited IN 100.00 100.00
UPM-Kymmene Japan K.K. JP 100.00 100.00
UPM-Kymmene Kagit Urunleri Sanayi ve Ticared Ltd. Sti. TR 100.00 100.00
UPM-Kymmene Otepää OÜ EE 100.00 100.00
UPM-Kymmene S.r.l. IT 100.00 100.00
UPM-Kymmene Seven Seas Oy FI 100.00 100.00
UPM-Kymmene Sp.z o.o. PL 100.00 100.00
Uruwood S.A.2) UY — 93.55
Werla Insurance Company Ltd MT 100.00 100.00
Subsidiaries
Country of 
incorporation
Holding % 
     2025
Holding %
      2024 
Above list includes UPM's principal subsidiaries.
1) In 2025, UPM acquired Metamark. Refer to » note 8.1. Business acquisitions and disposals. 
2) In 2025, Uruwood S.A. merged to Forestal Oriental S.A.
UPM Financial Report 2025 324
Joint operations
COUNTRY OF 
INCORPORATION
HOLDING % 
     2025
HOLDING %
      2024
Oy Alholmens Kraft Ab (Pohjolan Voima Oy, G series and direct ownership) FI 50.00 50.00
Järvi-Suomen Voima Oy FI 50.00 50.00
Kaukaan Voima Oy (Pohjolan Voima Oy, G9 series) FI 54.00 54.00
Kymin Voima Oy (Pohjolan Voima Oy, G2 series) FI 76.00 76.00
Rauman Biovoima Oy (Pohjolan Voima Oy, G4 series) FI 71.95 71.95
Phyla UPM JVCO Limited GB 50.00 50.00
Non-controlling interests
UPM has non-controlling interests mainly in Uruguay companies. 
Summarized financial information of Uruguay subsidiaries that have non-
controlling interests is presented in the following table. The amounts 
disclosed are before inter-company eliminations.
€ million 2025 2024
Profit for the period  117  298 
Other comprehensive income for the period  —  — 
Total comprehensive income for the period  117  298 
Share of non-controlling interests  10  27 
Non-current assets  3,034  3,632 
Current assets  809  965 
Non-current liabilities  189  270 
Current liabilities  173  132 
Net assets  3,481  4,195 
Share of non-controlling interests  313  378 
8.3 Related party transactions
The Board of Directors and the Group Executive Team
There have not been any material transactions between UPM and its 
members of the Board of Directors or the Group Executive Team (key 
management personnel) or persons closely associated with these 
members or organizations in which these individuals have control or 
significant influence. There are no loans granted to any members of the 
Board of Directors or the Group Executive Team at  December 31, 2025 or 
2024.
For information concerning shares held by members of the Board of 
Directors as well as remuneration to members of the Board of Directors 
and the Group Executive Team are disclosed in Note 3.2. Key 
management personnel.
Associates and joint ventures
Transactions with associates and joint ventures are presented in the table 
below. The Group has no individually material associates or joint ventures.
€ million 2025 2024
Dividends received  2  2 
Purchases of raw materials and services  36  28 
Loan receivables  3  13 
Trade and other receivables  0  1 
Trade and other payables  5  4 
Subsidiaries and joint operations
Refer to » Note 8.2 Principal subsidiaries and joint operations.
Pension Funds
In the UK, the single UPM Pension Scheme operates under a Trust which 
is independent from the Group. The Trust consists of various defined 
benefit sections, all of which are closed to future accrual and one 
common defined contribution section which is open to all UPM 
employees in the UK. The Group made contributions of €0 million (0 
million) to the defined benefit sections of the Scheme in 2025. The fair 
value of the UK defined benefit fund assets at  December 31, 2025 was 
€266 million (274 million), of which 23% was invested in equity 
instruments, 53% in debt instruments, 4% in property, 14% money market 
and 6% in other investments.
8.4 Assets held for sale
No assets or liabilities were classified as held for sale at the end of 2025 or 
at the end of 2024.
Accounting policies
Non-current assets (or disposal groups) are classified as assets held for 
sale and stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs 
to sell, if UPM will recover their carrying amount through a sale 
transaction which is considered highly probable. Non-current assets 
classified as held for sale, or included within a disposal group that is 
classified as held for sale, are not depreciated after the classification.
UPM Financial Report 2025 325
UPM Annual Report 2025324 325
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

9. Unrecognized items
9.1 Commitments and contingencies
In the normal course of business, UPM enters into various agreements 
providing financial or performance assurance to third parties. The 
maximum amounts of future payments for which UPM is liable is 
disclosed in the table below under “Other commitments”. Property under 
mortgages given as collateral for own commitments include property, 
plant and equipment, industrial estates and forest land. 
€ million 2025 2024
Other own commitments 
Leasing commitments for the next 12 months in 
accordance with IFRS 16  1  1 
Other commitments  128  106 
Total  129  107 
The lease commitments for leases not commenced at the end of 2025 
amounted to €0 million (€24 million at the end of 2024). The decrease 
during reporting period is due to the commencement of the service 
agreement related to wastewater treatment in Leuna, Germany.
9.2 Litigation
Contingent liabilities
The Group is defendant or plaintiff in a number of legal proceedings 
incidental to its operations. These lawsuits primarily involve claims arising 
from commercial law issues.
Group companies
The Group’s management is not aware of any significant litigation at the 
end of 2025.
9.3 Events after the balance sheet date
On January 2, UPM announced that the strategic partnership agreement 
between UPM and Versowood has received the necessary regulatory 
approvals and has entered into force on December 31, 2025.
On January 12, UPM announced that it received leadership scores in 
CDP 2025 assessment for environmental efficiency and transparent 
reporting on climate, forest, and water-related actions.
UPM Financial Report 2025 326
10. Other notes
10.1 Forthcoming accounting policy changes 
Change in the composition of reportable segments
The Group will change its reportable segments composition by moving 
UPM Forest business into UPM Fibres business area as of January 1, 2026. 
The vast majority of wood used by UPM in Finland is consumed within the 
UPM Fibres business, and the Finnish forests are therefore considered an 
integral operational and strategic part of UPM Fibres North operations. In 
addition, the change improves consistency with UPM Fibre’s operations in 
Uruguay, where forest assets have already been reported as part of the 
UPM Fibres South operations. Until the end of 2025, UPM Forest was 
included in Other operations. 
UPM Biorefining, consisting of UPM Biochemicals and UPM Biofuels 
and reported as part of Other operations, will be renamed UPM Next 
Generation Renewables as of January 1, 2026.
Following these changes, Other Operations includes UPM Next 
Generation Renewables, Wood sourcing, Group services and Technology 
and forest assets in the U.S..  
The change will impact KPIs of UPM Fibres reportable segment and 
Other Operations. The comparative periods will be restated according to 
the new reporting principles. The reporting change has no impact on the 
Group financial result or balance sheet.
UPM Fibres (1/1/2026)
2025
UPM 
Fibres as 
published
UPM 
Fibres 
restated
Sales, € million  3,407  3,531 
Comparable EBITDA, € million  511  621 
% of sales  15.0  17.6 
Change in fair value of forest assets and wood 
harvested, € million  65  144 
Share of results of associated companies and joint 
ventures, € million  2  2 
Depreciation, amortization and impairment 
charges, € million  -295  -295 
Operating profit, € million  282  472 
% of sales  8.3  13.4 
Items affecting comparability in operating profit, 
€ million 1)  0  0 
Comparable EBIT, € million  283  472 
% of sales  8.3  13.4 
Capital employed (average), € million  6,745  8,556 
Comparable ROCE, %  4.2  5.5 
Other Operations (1/1/2026)
2025
Other 
operations 
as 
published
Other 
operations 
restated
Sales, € million  693  693 
Comparable EBITDA, € million  -25  -136 
Change in fair value of forest assets and wood 
harvested, € million  80  0 
Share of results of associated companies and joint 
ventures, € million  -2  -2 
Depreciation, amortization and impairment charges, 
€ million  -45  -44 
Operating profit, € million  -8  -197 
Items affecting comparability in operating profit, 
€ million 1)  -17  -17 
Comparable EBIT, € million  9  -180 
Capital employed (average), € million  3,112  1,301 
Comparable ROCE, %  0.3  -13.8 
UPM Financial Report 2025 327
UPM Annual Report 2025326 327
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

10.2 Forthcoming new standards, 
amendments and other accounting policy 
changes
Certain new accounting standard amendments and interpretations have 
been published that come into effect only after the reporting period 
started on January 1, 2025. These standards and amendments are not 
expected to have a material impact on the Group in the current or future 
reporting periods and on foreseeable future transactions and have not 
been early adopted.
IFRS 18 Presentation and Disclosure in Financial 
Statements
IFRS 18 will replace IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements, introducing 
new requirements that will help to achieve comparability of the financial 
performance of similar entities and provide more relevant information 
and transparency to users. IFRS 18 will not impact the recognition or 
measurement of items in the financial statements, but its impacts on 
presentation and disclosure are expected to be pervasive, in particular 
those related to the statement of financial performance and providing 
management-defined performance measures within the financial 
statements.
Management is currently assessing the detailed implications of 
applying the new standard on the Group’s consolidated financial 
statements. Although the adoption of IFRS 18 will have no impact on the 
Group’s net profit, the Group expects that grouping items of income and 
expenses in the statement of profit or loss into the new categories will 
impact how operating profit is calculated and reported. From the high-
level impact assessment that the Group has performed, the following 
items might potentially impact operating profit:
• The Group currently recognizes some foreign exchange gains or losses 
in operating profit and others in financial income and expenses. There 
might be a change to where these gains or losses are recognized, and 
the Group is currently evaluating the need for change.
• The Group currently recognizes some derivative gains or losses in 
operating profit and others in financial income and expenses. There 
might be a change to where these gains or losses are recognized, and 
the Group is currently evaluating the need for change.
The line items presented on the primary financial statements might 
change as a result of the application of the concept of ‘useful structured 
summary’ and the enhanced principles on aggregation and 
disaggregation.
The Group does not expect there to be a significant change in the 
information that is currently disclosed in the notes because the 
requirement to disclose material information remains unchanged; 
however, the way in which the information is grouped might change as a 
result of the aggregation/disaggregation principles. In addition, there will 
be new disclosures required for management-defined performance 
measures.
There will also be changes to how interest received and interest paid 
are presented in the consolidated cash flow statement. Interest paid will 
be presented as financing cash flows and interest received as investing 
cash flows, which is a change from current presentation as part of 
operating cash flows.
The Group will apply the new standard from its mandatory effective 
date of January 1, 2027. Retrospective application is required, and the 
comparative information for the financial year ending December 31, 2026 
will be restated in accordance with IFRS 18. For the first annual period of 
application of IFRS 18, a reconciliation for each line item in the statement 
of profit or loss between the restated amounts presented by applying 
IFRS 18 and the amounts previously presented applying IAS 1 is required.  
UPM Financial Report 2025 328
Parent company accounts
(Finnish Accounting Standards, FAS)
Income statement
€ million Note 2025 2024
Sales  1 2,470 2,599
Change in inventories of finished goods and work in progress -9 -10
Production for own use 3 3
Other operating income  2 116 79
Materials and services
Raw materials and consumables purchased -2,007 -1,956
Change in inventories 9 26
External charges -9 -9
-2,007 -1,938
Personnel expenses
Salaries and fees -196 -206
Indirect employee costs
Pension costs -33 -35
   Other indirect employee costs -6 -5
 3 -234 -247
Depreciation, amortization and impairment charges
Depreciation and amortization -95 -103
 4 -95 -103
Other operating expenses  5 -327 -287
Operating profit (loss) -82 96
Financial income and expenses
Income from non-current assets
Dividend income from Group companies 1,052 479
Interest income from Group companies 0 8
Other interest and financial income
Other interest income from Group companies 106 144
Other interest income from other companies 13 24
Other financial income from Group companies 0 39
Other financial income from other companies 194 130
Impairment charges and reversals on investments -60 -226
Interest and other financial expenses
Interest expenses to Group companies -115 -156
Interest expenses to other companies -95 -102
Other financial expenses to Group companies -55 0
Other financial expenses to other companies -16 -112
1,024 228
Profit (loss) before closing entries and tax 942 323
Closing entries
Depreciation difference 21 20
Group contributions received 227 57
Group contributions granted -17 -7
231 70
Income taxes  6 -24 -12
Profit (Loss) for the period 1,148 382
UPM Financial Report 2025 329
UPM Annual Report 2025328 329
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

Balance sheet
€ million Note 2025 2024
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Intangible assets
Intangible rights  21 5
Other intangible assets  41 21
Advance payments  34 41
 7  96 67
Tangible assets
Land and water areas  747 747
Buildings  149 158
Machinery and equipment  350 386
Other tangible assets  16 18
Advance payments and construction in progress  15 17
 8  1,277 1,326
Investments
Holdings in Group companies  6,561 6,968
Holdings in participating interest companies  15 5
Other shares and holdings  25 3
Receivables from Group companies 1)  847 1,051
Receivables from participating interest companies  3 13
9  7,452 8,040
Total non-current assets 8,824 9,432
Current assets
Inventories
Raw materials and consumables  264 256
Finished products and goods  24 32
Advance payments  31 33
319 321
Receivables
Current receivables
Trade receivables 52 48
Receivables from Group companies 1) 1,872 1,613
Receivables from participating interest companies 9 12
Other current receivables 41 112
Prepayments and accrued income 16 15
10 1,991 1,799
Other current financial assets 1 1
Cash and cash equivalents 594 729
Total current assets 2,904 2,851
Assets 11,728 12,283
UPM Financial Report 2025 330
1) Comparison year figure restated due to classification mistake in revaluation. €100.8 million has been transferred from current receivables from Group companies to non-current 
receivables.
€ million Note 2025 2024
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Share capital 890 890
Revaluation reserve 140 140
Reserve for invested non-restricted equity 1,273 1,273
Retained earnings 645 1,216
Profit (Loss) for the period 1,148 382
Total equity 11 4,095 3,900
Accumulated depreciation difference 322 347
Provisions
Termination provisions 2 4
Other provisions 143 196
 12 146 200
LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Bonds 2,669 2,711
Loans from financial institutions 123  154 
Payables to Group companies 2) 439 325
Other non-current liabilities 114 129
13 3,346 3,319
Current liabilities
Loans from financial institutions 31 31
Advances received 1 0
Trade payables 350 357
Payables to Group companies 2) 3,282 3,985
Payables to participating interest companies 3 3
Other current liabilities 71 50
Accrued expenses and deferred income 82 91
14 3,819 4,517
Total liabilities 7,165 7,836
Equity and liabilities 11,728 12,283
2) Comparison year figure restated due to classification mistake in revaluation. €4.1 million has been transferred from current payables to Group companies to non-current payables.
UPM Financial Report 2025 331
UPM Annual Report 2025330 331
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

Cash flow statement
€ million 2025 2024
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before closing entries and tax 942 323
Financial income and expenses -1,024 -228
Adjustments to operating profit 1) 2 279
Change in working capital 2) -116 291
Interest received 123 172
Interest paid -211 -250
Dividends received 1,053 479
Other financial items 88 -128
Income taxes paid -21 -7
Operating cash flow 836 931
Cash flows from investing activities
Investments in tangible and intangible assets -146 -70
Investments in shares and holdings -33 -611
Proceeds from sale of intangible and tangible assets 69 13
Proceeds from disposal of shares and holdings 357 4
Change in other non-current receivables 103 33
Investing cash flow 350 -632
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from non-current liabilities 127 650
Payments of non-current liabilities -96 -29
Change in current liabilities -610 60
Purchase of own shares -160 0
Dividends paid -792 -800
Group contributions, net 210 50
Other items 0 -1
Financing cash flow -1,321 -70
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 729 500
Change in cash and cash equivalents -135 230
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 594 729
Notes to cash flow statement
1) Adjustments to operating profit
€ million 2025 2024
Depreciation, amortization and impairment charges 90 102
Capital gains and losses on sale of non-current assets 21 216
Change in provisions -108 -39
Total 2 279
2) Change in working capital
€ million 2025 2024
Inventories 0 -19
Current receivables -94 314
Current non-interest-bearing liabilities -22 -4
Total -116 291
UPM Financial Report 2025 332
Notes to the parent company financial statements
Accounting policies
The financial statements of the parent company are prepared in 
accordance with Finnish Accounting Standards, FAS. The main 
differences in accounting policies of the Group and the parent company 
relate to the measurement of financial derivatives and forest assets and 
recognition of defined benefit obligations, share-based payments, lease 
agreements and deferred income taxes. 
The financial statements are presented in millions of euros and 
rounded and therefore the sum of individual figures might deviate from 
the presented total figure.
Foreign currency translation
Receivables and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies outstanding 
on the balance sheet date and other commitments are translated into 
euro currency using the balance sheet date exchange rate. Exchange rate 
differences arising from the valuation of trade receivables are recognized 
in sales and exchange rate differences on trade payables in purchases. 
Exchange differences arising from the measurement of other receivables 
and liabilities are recognized in financial items.
Tangible and intangible assets
Tangible and intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and amortization according to plan and impairments. 
Emission rights are recognized using net approach. Depreciation and 
amortization according to plan is recorded on a straight-line basis over 
the expected useful lives of the assets as follows: 
Land and water areas, no depreciation
Intangible assets   5–10 years
Buildings 20–50 years
Light machinery and equipment   5–10 years
Heavy machinery 15–20 years
Power plants 20–30 years
Other tangible assets   5–20 years
Forest assets are recognized as tangible assets within land and water 
areas at historical cost and revaluation. No systematic depreciation or 
changes in value due to felling is recognized. 
Investments
Investments are stated at cost less impairments.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or the probable selling price. 
Costs are measured using FIFO-method. In addition to variable costs, the 
cost of inventories includes a portion of the fixed costs of acquisition and 
manufacturing.
Revaluations
The balance sheet value of land includes revaluations. No new 
revaluations are made and the balance sheet value of land is considered 
to be below their fair value.
Leases
Lease payments of lease contracts are recognized in other operating 
expenses over the lease term. Lease payments due in future years under 
lease contracts are presented as off-balance sheet items.
Provisions
Provisions include foreseeable future expenses and losses to which the 
company is committed, the realization of which is probable and the 
amount can be reliably estimated, e.g. pension and environmental 
liabilities and termination and restructuring costs. Changes in provisions 
are recognized in income statement within particular cost items.
Sales
Sales include sales revenue from actual operations less indirect taxes, 
discounts, claims and exchange rate differences on trade receivables.
Research and development costs
Research and development costs are expensed in the year in which they 
are incurred.
Pensions
In Finland, employers are obliged to insure their employees for statutory 
benefits, as determined in Employee’s Pension Act (TyEL). The mandatory 
pensions are arranged through pension insurance companies. 
Contributions to pension insurance companies are charged to the 
income statement in the period to which the contributions relate. 
Share-based payments
Share based compensation is recognized as an expense in the income 
statement over the earnings period or in the year of award and the related 
liability is booked to the balance sheet.
Closing entries
Parent company closing entries consists of the change in the 
depreciation difference and group contributions granted to Group 
companies. The accumulated depreciation difference in the parent 
company has not been divided into equity and deferred tax liability.
Income taxes
Income taxes presented in the income statement consist of accrued 
taxes for the financial year and tax adjustments for prior years. The 
parent company has not recognized deferred tax assets and liabilities in 
the balance sheet, but presents the information in the notes.
UPM Financial Report 2025 333
UPM Annual Report 2025332 333
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

Derivatives
Realized results of derivative contracts and negative fair value of open 
derivative contracts are recognized in the income statement. Negative fair 
value of open derivative contracts that are not settled in cash is 
recognized as a provision in the balance sheet. Hedge accounting is not 
applied. Income and expenses of balance sheet hedging and forward 
foreign exchange contracts hedging commercial foreign currency flow of 
all Group companies are recognized in financial items. Income and 
expenses of commodity derivatives are recognized in operating profit. 
Income and expenses of commodity derivative contracts of Group 
companies are recognized in financial items. 
The majority of financial derivative contracts of the Group are made 
by the parent company. All contracts are made with external 
counterparties except internal derivatives which are used to manage 
foreign currency and interest rate exposure. 
Financial risks, fair values and maturities of the Group external derivatives 
are disclosed in » Note 6.1 Financial risk management and in » Note 6.2 
Derivatives and hedge accounting.
1. Sales
Sales by business area
€ million 2025 2024
UPM Fibres  1,861  2,043 
Other operations  609  556 
Total  2,470  2,599 
Sales by destination
€ million 2025 2024
Finland  2,414  2,545 
Other EU countries  31  34 
Other countries  25  20 
Total  2,470  2,599 
2. Other operating income
€ million 2025 2024
Gains on sale of non-current assets  44  10 
Rental income  7  7 
Other  66  62 
Total  116  79 
3. Personnel expenses
€ million 2025 2024
Salaries and fees of the President and CEO, and 
members of the Board of Directors 1)  3  3 
Other salaries and fees  193  203 
Pension costs  33  35 
Other indirect employee costs  6  5 
Total  234  247 
1) Refer to » Note 3.2 Key management personnel
Personnel
  2025 2024
Total average  2,775  2,933 
4. Depreciation, amortization and 
impairment charges
€ million 2025 2024
Intangible rights  8  2 
Other intangible assets  12  15 
Buildings  12  14 
Machinery and equipment  59  70 
Other tangible assets  2  2 
Total  95  103 
5. Other operating expenses
€ million 2025 2024
Rents and lease expenses  14  14 
Maintenance expenses  95  91 
Other operating expenses 1)  218  181 
Total  327  287 
1) The research and development costs in operating expenses were €33 million (€28 million) 
and auditor’s fee €3.3 million (€2.6 million). In personnel expenses the research and 
development costs were €10 million (€20 million).
6. Income taxes
€ million 2025 2024
Tax expense for the period  24  9 
Tax expense for the previous periods  —  3 
Total  24  12 
UPM Financial Report 2025 334
Deferred tax assets and liabilities 1)
€ million 2025 2024
Deferred tax assets
Provisions  29  40 
Share-based payments  1  1 
Other temporary differences  1  2 
Total  32  43 
Deferred tax liabilities
Accumulated depreciation difference  64  69 
Revaluations of land areas  60  60 
Total  124  129 
1) The parent company has not recognized deferred tax assets and liabilities in the balance 
sheet. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated based on temporary differences 
between the carrying and taxable values of assets and liabilities.
7. Intangible assets
€ million
Intangible 
rights
Other 
intangible 
assets
Advance 
payments  Total
2025
Accumulated costs  38  333  34  405 
Accumulated amortization and impairments  -17  -292  —  -310 
Carrying value, at December 31  21  41  34  96 
Carrying value, at January 1  5  21  41  67 
Additions  49  13  13  75 
Disposals  -24  —  —  -24 
Amortization  -8  -12  —  -21 
Reclassifications  —  19  -20  -1 
Carrying value, at December 31  21  41  34  96 
2024
Accumulated costs  23  302  41  367 
Accumulated amortization and impairments  -19  -281  —  -300 
Carrying value, at December 31  5  21  41  67 
Carrying value, at January 1  5  27  26  58 
Additions  2  3  21  27 
Amortization  -2  -15  —  -17 
Reclassifications  —  7  -7  — 
Carrying value, at December 31  5  21  41  67 
UPM Financial Report 2025 335
UPM Annual Report 2025334 335
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

8. Tangible assets
€ million
Land and 
water areas Buildings
Machinery and 
equipment
Other tangible 
assets
Advance 
payments and 
construction in 
progress Total
2025
Accumulated costs  449  569  2,263  135  15  3,430 
Accumulated depreciation and impairments  —  -420  -1,913  -118  —  -2,451 
Revaluations  298  —  —  —  —  298 
Carrying value, at December 31  747  149  350  16  15  1,277 
Carrying value, at January 1  747  158  386  18  17  1,326 
Additions  1  2  33  —  13  49 
Disposals  -1  —  —  —  —  -1 
Depreciation  —  -14  -82  -2  —  -98 
Reclassifications  —  3  12  —  -15  — 
Carrying value, at December 31  747  149  350  16  15  1,277 
2024
Accumulated costs  449  577  2,299  141  17  3,483 
Accumulated depreciation and impairments  —  -419  -1,913  -122  —  -2,454 
Revaluations  298  —  —  —  —  298 
Carrying value, at December 31  747  158  386  18  17  1,326 
Carrying value, at January 1  748  166  414  18  26  1,372 
Additions  1  1  24  2  14  43 
Disposals  -2  —  —  —  —  -3 
Depreciation  —  -14  -70  -2  —  -86 
Reclassifications  —  5  18  —  -23  — 
Carrying value, at December 31  747  158  386  18  17  1,326 
UPM Financial Report 2025 336
 9. Other non-current assets
€ million
Holdings in 
group 
companies
Holdings in 
participating 
interest 
companies
Other shares 
and holdings
Receivables 
from group 
companies 2)
Receivables from 
participating interest 
companies Total
2025
Accumulated costs  8,315  15  25  847  3  9,205 
Accumulated value adjustments  -1,754  —  —  —  —  -1,754 
Carrying value, at December 31  6,561  15  25  847  3  7,452 
Carrying value, at January 1  6,968  5  3  1,051  13  8,040 
Additions  10  10  23  100  143 
Disposals  -357  —  —  -304  -10  -670 
Value adjustments 1)  -60  —  —  —  —  -60 
Carrying value, at December 31  6,561  15  25  847  3  7,452 
2024
Accumulated costs  8,662  5  3  1,051  13  9,733 
Accumulated value adjustments  -1,693  —  —  —  —  -1,693 
Carrying value, at December 31  6,968  5  3  1,051  13  8,040 
Carrying value, at January 1  6,587  5  3  993  3  7,590 
Additions  611  —  —  102  10  723 
Disposals  -4  —  —  -44  —  -48 
Value adjustments 1)  -226  —  —  —  —  -226 
Carrying value, at December 31  6,968  5  3  1,051  13  8,040 
1)  Value adjustments are shown in financial expenses
2) Comparison year figure restated due to classification mistake in revaluation. €100.8 million has been transferred from current receivables from Group companies to non-current receivables.
10. Current receivables
€ million
Receivables from 
group companies 3)
Receivables from 
participating 
interest companies
Receivables 
from others Total
2025
Trade receivables  385  9  52  446 
Loan receivables 1)  1,259  —  —  1,260 
Prepayments and accrued income 2)  —  —  16  17 
Other current receivables  227  —  41  268 
Carrying value, at December 31  1,872  9  109  1,991 
2024
Trade receivables  462  12  48  521 
Loan receivables 1)  1,094  —  —  1,094 
Prepayments and accrued income 2)  1  —  15  16 
Other current receivables  57  —  112  168 
Carrying value, at December 31  1,613  12  174  1,799 
1) There were no loans granted to the company’s President and CEO and members of the Board of Directors at  December 31, 2025 and 2024.
UPM Financial Report 2025 337
UPM Annual Report 2025336 337
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

2) Prepayments and accrued income
€ million 2025 2024
Interest income  10  12 
Income taxes  —  — 
Other items  7  4 
Carrying value, at December 31  17  16 
3) Comparison year figure restated due to classification mistake in revaluation. €100.8 million has been transferred from current receivables from Group companies to non-current receivables.
11. Equity
€ million Share capital
Revaluation 
reserve
Reserve for 
invested non-
restricted 
equity
Retained 
earnings
Profit/loss for 
the period
Total share-
holder’s equity
2025
Carrying value, at January 1  890  140  1,273  1,216  382 3,900
Transfer of profit from previous year  —  —  —  382  -382  — 
Profit for period  —  —  —  —  1,148  1,148 
Dividend distribution  —  —  —  -792  —  -792 
Changes in revaluations  —  —  —  —  —  — 
Other changes  —  —  —  -161  —  -161 
Carrying value, at December 31  890  140  1,273  645  1,148  4,095 
2024
Carrying value, at January 1  890  140  1,273  342  1,675  4,319 
Transfer of profit from previous year  —  —  —  1,675  -1,675  — 
Profit for period  —  —  —  —  382  382 
Dividend distribution  —  —  —  -800  —  -800 
Changes in revaluations  —  —  —  —  —  — 
Other changes  —  —  —  -1  —  -1 
Carrying value, at December 31  890  140  1,273  1,216  382  3,900 
€ million 2025 2024
Distributable funds
Reserve for invested non-restricted equity  1,273  1,273 
Retained earnings from previous years  645  1,216 
Profit (Loss) for the period  1,148  382 
Total distributable funds at December 31  3,066  2,871 
UPM Financial Report 2025 338
12. Provisions
€ million Restructuring Termination Environmental Other 1) Total
2025
Provisions at January 1  —  4  8  188  200 
Provisions made during the year  1  3  —  10  14 
Provisions utilized during the year  -1  -3  —  -63  -67 
Unused provisions reversed  —  -1  —  —  -2 
Carrying value, at December 31  —  2  8  135  146 
2024
Provisions at January 1  2  1  9  155  167 
Provisions made during the year  —  3  —  59  63 
Provisions utilized during the year  —  -1  —  -23  -24 
Unused provisions reversed  -2  —  -1  -3  -6 
Carrying value, at December 31  —  4  8  188  200 
1) Other provisions are attributable to onerous contracts and negative fair values of financial derivatives. At the end of 2025, the negative fair value loss in other provisions of €5 million (€5 
million) is attributable to one Group internal cross currency swap. 
13. Non-current liabilities
€ million 2025 2024
Bonds  2,669  2,711 
Loans from financial institutions  123  154 
Payables to Group companies  1)  439  325 
Other non-current liabilities  114  129 
Carrying value, at December 31  3,346  3,319 
1) Comparison year figure restated due to classification mistake in revaluation. €4.1 million 
has been transferred from current payables to Group companies to non-current payables.
Maturity in 2031 (in 2030) or later
€ million 2025 2024
Bonds  1,100  1,100 
Loans from financial institutions  —  31 
Other non-current liabilities  —  — 
Total  1,100  1,131 
Bonds
Fixed rate period Interest rate, % Currency
Nominal value 
issued, million
Carrying value Carrying value
2025 2024
€ million € million
1997-2027 7.450 USD 375  319  361 
2020-2028 0.125 EUR 750  750  750 
2021-2031 0.500 EUR 500  500  500 
2022-2029 2.250 EUR 500  500  500 
2024-2034 3.375 EUR  600  600  600 
Carrying value, at December 31  2,669  2,711 
Non-current portion  2,669  2,711 
UPM Financial Report 2025 339
UPM Annual Report 2025338 339
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

14. Current liabilities
€ million
Payables to group 
companies 2)
Payables to 
participating interest 
companies Payables to others Total
2025
Loans from financial institutions  —  —  31  31 
Advances received  —  —  1  1 
Trade payables  84  3  350  437 
Accrued expenses and deferred income 1)  2  —  82  83 
Other current liabilities  3,197  —  71  3,268 
Carrying value, at December 31  3,282  3  534  3,819 
2024
Loans from financial institutions  —  —  31  31 
Trade payables  81  3  357  440 
Accrued expenses and deferred income 1)  —  —  91  91 
Other current liabilities  3,905  —  50  3,954 
Carrying value, at December 31  3,985  3  529  4,517 
1) Accrued expenses and deferred income
€ million 2025 2024
Personnel expenses  59  70 
Interest expenses  21  20 
Exchange gains and losses  —  — 
Income taxes  3  1 
Carrying value, at December 31  83  91 
2) Comparison year figure restated due to classification mistake in revaluation. €4.1 million has been transferred from current payables to Group companies to non-current payables.
15. Commitments
€ million 2025 2024
Guarantees
Other guarantees on behalf of Group companies  15  23 
Other commitments
Leasing commitments, due within 12 months  24  25 
Leasing commitments, due after 12 months  79  95 
Other commitments  80  52 
Total  199  196 
In addition, the parent company acts as a guarantor on behalf of other 
companies belonging to the Group. The majority of such commitments 
relate to major investment projects and can end up payable by the parent 
company in case Group companies are unable to manage their 
obligations. Refer to » Note 4.1 Property, plant and equipment for 
information about major investment projects.
Pension commitments of the President and CEO and the 
members of the Group Executive Team
Refer to » Note 3.2 Key management personnel.
Related party transactions
Refer to » Note 8.3 Related party transactions.
UPM Financial Report 2025 340
16. Off-balance sheet assets
tonnes 2025 2024
Emission allowances
Emission allowances at January 1 1,090,737 1,132,472
Allocated allowances 221,714 52,571
Purchased allowances 50,000 —
Discontinued allowances -139,197 -94,306
Sold allowances -570,000 —
Emission allowances at December 31 653,254 1,090,737
Emission allowance corresponding to actual emissions -177,560 -192,689
Emission allowance surplus at December 31 475,694 898,048
The market value of emission allowances at December 31 (€ million) 42 59
17. Shares and holdings owned by the parent company
Myllykoski Oyj FI 100.00
Repola Investment Oy FI 100.00
Suurijärven Huolto Oy FI 65.44
Unicarta Oy FI 100.00
UPM (Vietnam) Limited VN 100.00
UPM AG CH 100.00
UPM Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. SG 100.00
UPM B.V. NL 100.00
UPM Biochemicals GmbH DE 100.00
UPM Biorefining Holding Oy FI 100.00
UPM Communication Papers Oy FI 100.00
UPM Energy Oy FI 100.00
UPM Kft. HU 100.00
UPM Manufatura e Comércio de Produtos Florestais Ltda. BR 100.00
UPM Netherlands B.V. NL 100.00
UPM NV BE 100.00
UPM OÜ EE 100.00
UPM Plywood Oy FI 100.00
UPM Pulp Holding Oy FI 100.00
UPM Pulp Oy FI 100.00
UPM Pulp Sales Oy FI 100.00
UPM Raflatac Canada Holdings Inc. CA 100.00
UPM Raflatac NZ Limited NZ 100.00
UPM Raflatac Oy FI 100.00
UPM Raflatac S.r.l. AR 27.80
UPM Romania S.R.L RO 100.00
UPM Silvesta Oy FI 100.00
UPM Specialty Papers Oy FI 100.00
UPM Wood Materials (UK) Ltd UK 100.00
UPM Wood Materials Austria GmbH AT 100.00
UPM-Kymmene (HK) Ltd. CN/HK 100.00
Subsidiaries Country of incorporation Holding % 
UPM Financial Report 2025 341
UPM Annual Report 2025340 341
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Financial Statements 

UPM-Kymmene (Korea) Ltd KR 100.00
UPM-Kymmene (UK) Holdings Limited UK 100.00
UPM-Kymmene A/S DK 100.00
UPM-Kymmene AB SE 100.00
UPM-Kymmene B.V. NL 100.00
UPM-Kymmene Beteiligungs GmbH DE 100.00
UPM-Kymmene d.o.o. SI 100.00
UPM-Kymmene Groupe S.A. FR 100.00
UPM-Kymmene Grundstücksverwaltung GmbH DE 100.00
UPM-Kymmene Hellas Ltd GR 100.00
UPM-Kymmene India Private Limited IN 100.00
UPM-Kymmene Investment Inc. US 100.00
UPM-Kymmene Japan K.K. JP 100.00
UPM-Kymmene Pty Limited AU 100.00
UPM-Kymmene S.A. ES 100.00
UPM-Kymmene S.r.l. IT 100.00
UPM-Kymmene s.r.o. CZ 100.00
UPM-Kymmene Seven Seas Oy FI 100.00
UPM-Kymmene Slovakia s.r.o. SK 100.00
Werla Insurance Company Ltd MT 100.00
Subsidiaries Country of incorporation Holding % 
Participating interest companies Country of incorporation Holding % 
Kiinteistö Oy Joutsan Rantatie 3 FI 25.43
Metsäteho Oy FI 23.95
Novimus Oy FI 38.65
Perkaus Oy FI 33.33
Rönnäsin Kiinteistöhuolto Oy FI 28.41
Steveco Oy FI 48.40
Group subsidiaries and joint operations are disclosed in » Note 8.2.
UPM Financial Report 2025 342
AUDITOR’S REPORT (Translation of the Finnish original) 
To the Annual General Meeting of UPM-Kymmene Corporation
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion 
We have audited the financial statements of UPM-Kymmene Corporation (business identity code 1041090-0) for the year ended 31 
December, 2025. The financial statements comprise the consolidated balance sheet, income statement, statement of 
comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity, statement of cash flows and notes, including material accounting policy 
information, as well as the parent company’s balance sheet, income statement, statement of cash flows and notes. 
In our opinion
• the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the group’s financial position, financial performance and cash 
flows in accordance with IFRS Accounting Standards as adopted by the EU.
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the parent company’s financial performance and financial position in 
accordance with the laws and regulations governing the preparation of financial statements in Finland and comply with statutory 
requirements.
Our opinion is consistent with the additional report submitted to the Audit Committee.
Basis for Opinion 
We conducted our audit in accordance with good auditing practice in Finland. Our responsibilities under good auditing practice are 
further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report.
We are independent of the parent company and of the group companies in accordance with the ethical requirements that are 
applicable in Finland and are relevant to our audit, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these 
requirements.
In our best knowledge and understanding, the non-audit services that we have provided to the parent company and group 
companies are in compliance with laws and regulations applicable in Finland regarding these services, and we have not provided 
any prohibited non-audit services referred to in Article 5(1) of regulation (EU) 537/2014. The non-audit services that we have 
provided have been disclosed in note 2.3 to the consolidated financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial 
statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, 
and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of 
our report, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included the performance of procedures designed to 
respond to our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements. The results of our audit procedures, 
UPM Financial Report 2025 343
UPM Annual Report 2025342 343
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Auditor's Report 

including the procedures performed to address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion on the accompanying 
financial statements.
We have also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls. This includes consideration of whether there was 
evidence of management bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key Audit Matter How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
Valuation of forest assets
We refer to the note 4.2 Forest assets in the consolidated financial 
statements
The value of forest assets at the balance sheet date 31.12.2025 
amounted to 2 605 million euro representing 15 % of total assets and 
25 % of total equity
Valuation of forest assets was a key audit matter because
• the valuation process is complex,
• the fair value measurement requires significant management 
judgement and is based on assumptions that are affected by 
expected market or economic conditions, and
• the value of forest assets is material to the financial statements.
The fair value of forest assets is calculated based on discounted 
future expected cash flows. Main factors used in the fair value 
calculations are estimates for growth and wood harvested, stumpage 
prices and discount rates.
Fair values of forest assets may vary significantly when above 
mentioned assumptions are changed.
Fair value measurement of forest assets was determined to be a key 
audit matter and a significant risk of material misstatement referred to 
in EU Regulation No 537/2014, point (c) of Article 10 (2).
Our audit procedures to address the risk of material 
misstatement in respect of valuation of forest assets included 
among others:
• Involvement of EY valuation specialists to assist us in 
evaluating appropriateness of methodologies, fair value 
calculations and underlying assumptions applied by the 
management.
• Testing of mathematical accuracy of the fair value 
calculations.
• Comparing the key assumptions made by management to 
estimates of tree growth assumptions, wood harvested and 
stumpage prices available in external sources; and assessing 
the used discount rate for reasonableness and consistency.
In addition, we assessed the overall reasonableness of 
management’s judgments.
We also assessed the sufficiency and appropriateness of the 
disclosures regarding the forest assets.
Valuation of energy shareholdings
We refer to the note 4.3 Financial Assets at FVOCI in the 
consolidated financial statements
The value of energy shareholdings at the balance sheet date 
31.12.2025 amounted to 2 160 million euro representing 12 % of total 
assets and 21 % of total equity
Valuation of energy shareholdings was a key audit matter because
• the valuation process is complex
Our audit procedures to address the risk of material 
misstatement in respect of valuation of energy shareholdings 
included among others:
• Involvement of EY valuation specialists to assist us in 
evaluating appropriateness of methodologies, fair value 
calculations and underlying assumptions applied by the 
management.
• Testing of mathematical accuracy of the fair value 
calculations.
UPM Financial Report 2025 344
• the fair value measurement requires significant management 
judgement and is based on assumptions that are affected by 
expected market or economic conditions, and
• the value of energy shareholdings is material to the financial 
statements.
The fair value of energy shareholdings is calculated based on 
discounted future expected cash flows. In determining the fair value 
of energy shareholdings, management must make among other 
things an assessment regarding future electricity market prices, 
future electricity production costs and volumes, and discount rate 
applied on discounting the cashflows.
Fair values of energy shareholdings may vary significantly when 
above mentioned assumptions are changed.
Fair value measurement of energy shareholdings was determined to 
be a key audit matter and a significant risk of material misstatement 
referred to in EU Regulation No 537/2014, point (c) of Article 10 (2).
• Comparing the key assumptions made by management to 
estimates of future electricity market prices available on 
external sources, estimates of future electricity production 
costs and volumes available on external sources, and 
assessing the used discount rate for reasonableness and 
consistency.
In addition, we assessed the overall reasonableness of 
management’s judgments.
We also assessed the sufficiency and appropriateness of the 
disclosures regarding the energy shareholdings.
Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director for the Financial Statements 
The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the preparation of consolidated financial statements that give 
a true and fair view in accordance with IFRS Accounting Standards as adopted by the EU, and of financial statements that give a 
true and fair view in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the preparation of financial statements in Finland and 
comply with statutory requirements. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are also responsible for such internal control 
as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether 
due to fraud or error. 
In preparing the financial statements, the Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for assessing the parent 
company’s and the group’s ability to continue as going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters relating to going concern and 
using the going concern basis of accounting. The financial statements are prepared using the going concern basis of accounting 
unless there is an intention to liquidate the parent company or the group or cease operations, or there is no realistic alternative but 
to do so. 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements 
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance on whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a 
high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with good auditing practice will always detect 
a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in 
aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial 
statements. 
As part of an audit in accordance with good auditing practice, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional 
skepticism throughout the audit. We also: 
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and 
perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, 
as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
UPM Financial Report 2025 345
UPM Annual Report 2025344 345
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Auditor's Report 

• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the parent company’s or the group’s 
internal control. 
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related 
disclosures made by management.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and the Managing Director’s use of the going concern basis of 
accounting and based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that 
may cast significant doubt on the parent company’s or the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a 
material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial 
statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence 
obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the parent company or the group 
to cease to continue as a going concern. 
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the 
financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events so that the financial statements give a true and fair view.
• Plan and perform the group audit to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities 
or business units within the group as a basis for forming an opinion on the group financial statements. We are responsible for the 
direction, supervision and review of the audit work performed for purposes of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for 
our audit opinion.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit 
and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements 
regarding independence, and communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear 
on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance 
in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in 
our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, 
we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would 
reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Other Reporting Requirements 
Information on our audit engagement
We were first appointed as auditors by the Annual General Meeting on 12.4.2023 for the year ended 31 December, 2024, and our 
appointment represents a total period of uninterrupted engagement of 2 years.
Other information
The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the 
report of the Board of Directors and the information included in the Annual Report, but does not include the financial statements 
and our auditor’s report thereon. We have obtained the report of the Board of Directors prior to the date of this auditor’s report, and 
the Annual Report is expected to be made available to us after that date. 
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above and, in 
doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained 
UPM Financial Report 2025 346
in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. With respect to report of the Board of Directors, our responsibility also 
includes considering whether the report of the Board of Directors has been prepared in compliance with the applicable provisions, 
excluding the sustainability report information on which there are provisions in Chapter 7 of the Accounting Act and in the 
sustainability reporting standards. 
In our opinion, the information in the report of the Board of Directors is consistent with the information in the financial statements 
and the report of the Board of Directors has been prepared in compliance with the applicable provisions. Our opinion does not 
cover the sustainability report information on which there are provisions in Chapter 7 of the Accounting Act and in the sustainability 
reporting standards. 
If, based on the work we have performed on the other information that we obtained prior to the date of this auditor’s report, we 
conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to 
report in this regard.  
Other statements based on law
Our responsibility is to, based on our audit, express an opinion on the registration and publication of the income tax report required 
in Chapter 7 b of the Accounting Act.
The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the registration and the publication of the income tax report.
In our opinion, the company has not been obliged to register and publish an income tax report referred to in Chapter 7 b of the 
Accounting Act for the financial year immediately preceding the financial year.
Other opinions on assignment of the Board of Directors
We support that the financial statements should be adopted. The proposal by the Board of Directors regarding the use of the profit 
shown in the balance sheet is in compliance with the Limited Liability Companies Act. We support that the Members of the Board of 
Directors of the parent company and the Managing Director should be discharged from liability for the financial period audited by 
us.
Helsinki 12.2.2026
Ernst & Young Oy
Authorized Public Accountant Firm
Heikki Ilkka
Authorized Public Accountant
UPM Financial Report 2025 347
UPM Annual Report 2025346 347
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Auditor's Report 

(Translation of the Finnish original)
Independent Auditor’s Report on the ESEF Consolidated Financial Statements of UPM-
Kymmene Oyj
To the Board of Directors of UPM-Kymmene Oyj
We have performed a reasonable assurance engagement on the financial statements 213800EC6PW5VU4J9U64-2025-12-31-
fi.zip of UPM-Kymmene Oyj (y-identifier: 1041090-0) that have been prepared in accordance with the Commission’s regulatory 
technical standard for the financial year ended 31.12.2025.
Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director
The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the preparation of the company’s report of Board of Directors 
and financial statements (the ESEF financial statements) in such a way that they comply with the requirements of the 
Commission’s regulatory technical standard. This responsibility includes: 
• preparing the ESEF financial statements in XHTML format in accordance with Article 3 of the Commission’s regulatory technical 
standard
• tagging the primary financial statements, notes and company’s identification data in the consolidated financial statements that 
are included in the ESEF financial statements with iXBRL tags in accordance with Article 4 of the Commission’s regulatory 
technical standard and
• ensuring the consistency between the ESEF financial statements and the audited financial statements
The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to 
enable the preparation of ESEF financial statements in accordance the requirements of the Commission’s regulatory technical 
standard.
Auditor’s Independence and Quality Management
We are independent of the company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are applicable in Finland and are relevant to 
the engagement we have performed, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. 
The firm applies International Standard on Quality Management (ISQM) 1, which requires the firm to design, implement and 
operate a system of quality management including policies or procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, 
professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements
Auditor’s Responsibilities
Our responsibility is to, in accordance with Chapter 7, Section 8 of the Securities Markets Act, provide assurance on the financial 
statements that have been prepared in accordance with the Commission’s technical regulatory standard.  We express an opinion 
on whether the consolidated financial statements that are included in the ESEF financial statements have been tagged, in all 
material respects, in accordance with the requirements of Article 4 of the Commission's regulatory technical standard.
Our responsibility is to indicate in our opinion to what extent the assurance has been provided. We conducted a reasonable 
assurance engagement in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. 
UPM Financial Report 2025 348
The engagement includes procedures to obtain evidence on:
• whether the primary financial statements in the consolidated financial statements that are included in the ESEF financial 
statements have been tagged, in all material respects, with iXBRL tags in accordance with the requirements of Article 4 of the 
Commission's regulatory technical standard and 
• whether the notes and company's identification data in the consolidated financial statements that are included in the ESEF 
financial statements have been tagged, in all material respects, with iXBRL tags in accordance with the requirements of Article 4 
of the Commission's regulatory technical standard and 
• whether there is consistency between the ESEF financial statements and the audited financial statements. 
The nature, timing and extent of the selected procedures depend on the auditor’s judgement. This includes an assessment of the 
risk of material deviations due to fraud or error from the requirements of the Commission’s technical regulatory standard. 
We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Opinion
Our opinion pursuant to Chapter 7, Section 8 of the Securities Markets Act is that the primary financial statements, notes and 
company's identification data in the consolidated financial statements that are included in the ESEF financial statements of UPM-
Kymmene Oyj 213800EC6PW5VU4J9U64-2025-12-31-fi.zip for the financial year ended 31.12.2025 have been tagged, in all 
material respects, in accordance with the requirements of the Commission's regulatory technical standard.
Our opinion on the audit of the consolidated financial statements of UPM-Kymmene Oyj for the financial year ended 31.12.2025 
has been expressed in our auditor's report 12.2.2026. With this report we do not express an opinion on the audit of the 
consolidated financial statements nor express another assurance conclusion.
Helsinki 3.3.2026
Ernst & Young Oy
Authorized Public Accountant Firm
Heikki Ilkka
Authorized Public Accountant
UPM Financial Report 2025 349
UPM Annual Report 2025348 349
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Auditor's Report 

ASSURANCE REPORT ON THE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(Translation of the Finnish original)
To the Annual General Meeting of UPM-Kymmene Oyj 
We have performed a limited assurance engagement on the group sustainability statement of UPM-Kymmene Oyj (1041090-0) that 
is referred to in Chapter 7 of the Accounting Act and that is included in the report of the Board of Directors for the reporting period 
1.1.–31.12.2025. 
Opinion
Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes 
us to believe that the group sustainability statement does not comply, in all material respects, with
1) the requirements laid down in Chapter 7 of the Accounting Act and the sustainability reporting standards (ESRS), and
2) the requirements laid down in Article 8 of the Regulation (EU) 2020/852 of the European Parliament and of the Council on 
the establishment of a framework to facilitate sustainable investment, and amending Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 (EU 
Taxonomy).
Point 1 above also contains the process in which UPM-Kymmene Oyj has identified the information for reporting in accordance with 
the sustainability reporting standards (double materiality assessment).
Our opinion does not cover the tagging of the group sustainability statement with digital XBRL sustainability tags in accordance 
with Chapter 7, Section 22, Subsection 1(2), of the Accounting Act, because sustainability reporting companies have not had the 
possibility to comply with that requirement in the absence of requirements for the tagging of sustainability information in the ESEF 
regulation or other European Union legislation. 
Basis for Opinion
We performed the assurance of the group sustainability statement as a limited assurance engagement in compliance with good 
assurance practice in Finland and with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised) Assurance 
Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. 
Our responsibilities under this standard are further described in the Responsibilities of the Authorized Group Sustainability Auditor 
section of our report.
We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Authorized Group Sustainability Auditor's Independence and Quality Management
We are independent of the parent company and of the group companies in accordance with the ethical requirements that are 
applicable in Finland and are relevant to our engagement, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with 
these requirements.
The Authorized Group Sustainability Auditor applies International Standard on Quality Management ISQM 1, which requires the 
Authorized Sustainability Audit Firm to design, implement and operate a system of quality management including policies or 
procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory 
requirements.
UPM Financial Report 2025 350
Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director
The Board of Directors and the Managing Director of UPM-Kymmene Oyj are responsible for: 
• the group sustainability statement and for its preparation and presentation in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 7 of the 
Accounting Act, including the process that has been defined in the sustainability reporting standards and in which the information 
for reporting in accordance with the sustainability reporting standards has been identified,
• the compliance of the group sustainability statement with the requirements laid down in Article 8 of the Regulation (EU) 2020/852 
of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of a framework to facilitate sustainable investment, and 
amending Regulation (EU) 2019/2088; and for
• such internal control as the Board of Directors and the Managing Director determine is necessary to enable the preparation of a 
group sustainability statement that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 
Inherent Limitations in the Preparation of a Sustainability Statement
The preparation of the group sustainability statement requires a materiality assessment from the company in order to identify 
relevant disclosures. This significantly involves management judgment and choices. Group Sustainability reporting is also 
characterized by the fact that reporting of this type of information involves estimates and assumptions, as well as measurement 
and assessment uncertainty.
The determination of greenhouse gases is subject to inherent uncertainty due to the incomplete scientific data used to determine 
the emission factors and the numerical values needed to combine emissions of different gases. 
 
When reporting future-related information in accordance with the ESRS standards, the company’s management must present 
assumptions regarding possible future events and disclose the company's potential future actions related to these events, as well 
as prepare future-related information based on these assumptions. The actual outcome is likely to differ, as predicted events often 
do not occur as expected.
Responsibilities of the Authorized Group Sustainability Auditor
Our responsibility is to perform an assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether the group sustainability 
statement is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue a limited assurance report that includes 
our opinion. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could 
reasonably be expected to influence the decisions of users taken on the basis of the group sustainability statement.
Compliance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised) requires that we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the engagement. We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the group sustainability statement, whether due to fraud or error, and 
obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the engagement in order to design assurance procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the parent company’s 
or the group’s internal control.
• Design and perform assurance procedures responsive to those risks to obtain evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to 
provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one 
resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal 
control.
UPM Financial Report 2025 351
UPM Annual Report 2025350 351
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Sustainability Assurance Reports

Description of the Procedures That Have Been Performed
The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, a 
reasonable assurance engagement. The nature, timing and extent of assurance procedures selected depend on professional 
judgment, including the assessment of risks of material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Consequently, the level of 
assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained 
had a reasonable assurance engagement been performed. 
Our procedures included for ex. the following:
• We have interviewed the management of the group as well as key personnel responsible for collecting and reporting of the 
information included in the group sustainability statement.
• Through interviews, we gained an understanding of the group's control environment related to the group sustainability reporting 
process.
• We evaluated the implementation of the company's double materiality assessment process in relation to the requirements of the 
ESRS standards, as well as whether the information provided from the double materiality assessment is in material respects in 
accordance with the ESRS standards.
• We assessed whether the group sustainability statement in material respects meets the requirements of the ESRS standards 
regarding material sustainability topics: 
– We have tested the accuracy of the information presented in the group sustainability statement by comparing the 
information on a sample basis to the documentation and records prepared by the company and assessed whether they 
support the information included in the group sustainability statement. 
– We have on a sample basis performed analytical assurance procedures and related inquiries, recalculations and inspected 
documentation, as well as tested data aggregation to assess the accuracy of the group sustainability statement.
• We conducted site visits at selected locations.
• Regarding the EU Taxonomy data, we gained an understanding of the process by which a company has defined taxonomy-
eligible and taxonomy-aligned economic activities, and we assessed the compliance of the information provided.
Helsinki 12.2.2026
Ernst & Young Oy
Authorized Sustainability Audit Firm 
Heikki Ilkka
Authorized Sustainability Auditor 
UPM Financial Report 2025 352
ASSURANCE REPORT ON THE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(Translation of the Finnish original) 
To the Annual General Meeting of UPM-Kymmene Oyj 
We have performed a reasonable assurance engagement of Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions (the “GHG emissions”) 
contained in the group sustainability statement of UPM-Kymmene Oyj (1041090-0) that is referred to in Chapter 7 of the 
Accounting Act and the sustainability reporting standards (ESRS) (the “Criteria”) and that is included in the report of the Board of 
Directors for the reporting period 1.1.–31.12.2025. 
Other than as described in the preceding paragraph, which sets out the scope of our engagement, we did not perform reasonable 
assurance procedures on the remaining information included in the group sustainability statement and accordingly, we do not 
express an opinion on this information. 
Opinion
In our opinion, Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions for the financial year 1.1-31.12.2025 are presented, in all material respects, 
in accordance with the requirements laid down in Chapter 7 of the Accounting Act and the sustainability reporting standards 
(ESRS).
Our opinion does not cover the tagging of the group sustainability statement with digital XBRL sustainability tags in accordance 
with Chapter 7, Section 22, Subsection 1(2), of the Accounting Act, because sustainability reporting companies have not had the 
possibility to comply with that requirement in the absence of requirements for the tagging of sustainability information in the ESEF 
regulation or other European Union legislation. 
Basis for Opinion
We performed the assurance of the group sustainability statement as a reasonable assurance engagement in compliance with 
good assurance practice in Finland and with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised) 
Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. 
Our responsibilities under this standard are further described in the Responsibilities of the Authorized Group Sustainability Auditor 
section of our report.
We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Authorized Group Sustainability Auditor's Independence and Quality Management 
We are independent of the parent company and of the group companies in accordance with the ethical requirements that are 
applicable in Finland and are relevant to our engagement, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with 
these requirements.
The Authorized Group Sustainability Auditor applies International Standard on Quality Management ISQM 1, which requires the 
Authorized Sustainability Audit Firm to design, implement and operate a system of quality management including policies or 
procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory 
requirements.
Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director
The Board of Directors and the Managing Director of UPM-Kymmene Oyj are responsible for: 
UPM Financial Report 2025 353
UPM Annual Report 2025352 353
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Sustainability Assurance Reports

• the group sustainability statement and for its preparation and presentation in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 7 of the 
Accounting Act, including the process that has been defined in the sustainability reporting standards and in which the information 
for reporting in accordance with the sustainability reporting standards has been identified 
• such internal control as the Board of Directors and the Managing Director determine is necessary to enable the preparation of a 
group sustainability statement that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.  
Inherent Limitations in the Preparation of a Sustainability Statement
Sustainability reporting is characterized by the fact that reporting of this type of information involves estimates and assumptions, as 
well as measurement and assessment uncertainty. The determination of greenhouse gases is subject to inherent uncertainty due to 
the incomplete scientific data used to determine the emission factors and the numerical values needed to combine emissions of 
different gases.
Responsibilities of the Authorized Group Sustainability Auditor
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the presentation of the GHG emissions based on the evidence we have obtained. We 
conducted our engagement in accordance with the International Standard for Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised) 
Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. Those standards require that we plan and perform our 
engagement to obtain reasonable assurance about whether, in all material respects, the GHG emissions are presented in 
accordance with the Criteria, and to issue a report. The nature, timing, and extent of the procedures selected depend on our 
judgment, including an assessment of the risk of material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Description of the Procedures That Have Been Performed
As part of our assurance procedures we, for example:
• Conducted interviews with relevant personnel to understand the business and reporting process, including the sustainability 
strategy, principles and management
• Conducted interviews with key personnel to understand the sustainability reporting system during the reporting period, including 
the process for collecting, collating and reporting the GHG emissions
• Checked that the calculation criteria have been correctly applied in accordance with the methodologies outlined in the Criteria
• Undertook analytical review procedures to support the reasonableness of the data
• Identified and testing assumptions supporting calculations
• Tested, on a sample basis, underlying source information to check the accuracy of the data
• Inspected relevant documentation of the systems and processes for compiling, analysing, and aggregating data in the reporting 
period and testing such documentation on a sample basis
• Performed physical and online site visits to performed inquiries and inspect documents on a sample basis.
• Read and reviewed selected material qualitative statements in applicable sections of the report for plausibility and consistency
Helsinki 12.2.2026
Ernst & Young Oy
Authorized Sustainability Audit Firm 
Heikki Ilkka
Authorized Sustainability Auditor 
UPM Financial Report 2025 354
Other financial information
Alternative performance measures
UPM presents certain performance measures of historical performance, financial position and cash flows, which in accordance with the “Alternative 
Performance Measures” guidance issued by the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) are not accounting measures defined or specified in 
IFRS Accounting Standards and are therefore considered as alternative performance measures. These alternative performance measures are described 
below:
Alternative performance measure Definition
Operating profit Profit before income tax expense, finance expenses and finance income and net gains on sale of energy shareholdings 
as presented on the face of the IFRS income statement. Gains on sale of energy shareholdings are not recorded to the 
income statement from 2018 onwards.
Comparable EBIT Operating profit adjusted for items affecting comparability.
Comparable EBITDA Operating profit before depreciation, amortization and impairments, change in fair value of forest assets and wood 
harvested, share of results of associates and joint ventures and items affecting comparability.
Comparable profit before tax Profit before income tax expense excluding items affecting comparability.
Comparable profit for the period Profit for the period excluding items affecting comparability and their tax impact.
Comparable EPS, € Earnings per share calculated in accordance with IFRS excluding items affecting comparability and their tax impact.
Net debt Total of current and non-current debt less cash and cash equivalents and interest-bearing current and non-current 
financial assets.
Items affecting comparability Certain non-operational or non-cash valuation transactions with significant income statement impact are considered 
as items affecting comparability, if they arise from asset impairments, restructuring measures, asset sales, fair value 
changes of forest assets resulting from changes in valuation parameters or estimates or changes in legislation or legal 
proceedings. In addition, the changes in fair value of unrealized cash flow and commodity hedges and business 
acquisition costs  are classified as items affecting comparability. Numerical threshold for items to be considered as 
significant is €1 million pre-tax in all business areas. 
Free cash flow Cash generated from operations after cash used for investing activities.
Return on equity (ROE), % Profit for the period as a percentage of average equity.
Comparable ROE, % Return on equity (ROE) excluding items affecting comparability.
Return on capital employed (ROCE), % Profit before taxes, interest expenses and other financial expenses as a percentage of average capital employed.
Comparable ROCE, % Return on capital employed (ROCE) excluding items affecting comparability.
Capital employed Group total equity and total debt.
Business area’s comparable ROCE, % Business area’s operating profit adjusted for items affecting comparability as a percentage of business area’s average 
capital employed.
Business area’s capital employed Business area’s operating assets less its operating liabilities. Operating assets include goodwill, other intangible assets, 
property, plant and equipment, forest assets, energy shareholdings, investments in associates and joint-ventures, 
inventories and trade receivables. Operating liabilities include trade payables and advances received.
Capital expenditure Capitalized investments in property, plant and equipment, intangible assets including goodwill arising from business 
combinations, energy shareholdings and other shares, associates and joint ventures.
Capital expenditure excluding acquisitions and 
shares
Capital expenditure excluding investments in shares and participations.
Operating cash flow per share, € Operating cash flow divided by adjusted average number of shares during the period excluding treasury shares.
Gearing ratio, % Net debt as a percentage of total equity
Net debt to EBITDA Net debt divided by comparable EBITDA
Equity to assets ratio, % Equity expressed as a percentage of total assets less advances received.
UPM Financial Report 2025 355
UPM Annual Report 2025354 355
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Sustainability Assurance Reports

Reconciliation of key figures to IFRS (Quarterly key figures are unaudited)
€ million, or as indicated Q4/25 Q3/25 Q2/25 Q1/25 Q4/24 Q3/24 Q2/24 Q1/24
Q1–
Q4/25
Q1–
Q4/24
Items affecting comparability
Impairment charges  -10  -35  -3  -11  -516  11  -44  —  -59  -549 
Restructuring charges  9  -71  -16  -72  -18  -3  -83  2  -151  -103 
Change in fair value of unrealized cash flow and 
commodity hedges  -1  1  0  -1  8  12  -10  -3  -1  7 
Capital gains and losses on sale of non-current assets  48  7  —  —  1  —  5  22  55  29 
Other non-operational items  -10  —  0  -4  3  -6  —  —  -15  -4 
Total items affecting comparability in operating profit  35  -99  -19  -89  -523  14  -132  21  -171  -620 
Items affecting comparability in financial items  —  —  -1  —  —  0  -3  —  -1  -3 
Tax provisions  -68  —  —  3  —  —  —  —  -65  — 
Taxes relating to items affecting comparability  -10  14  3  7  100  -3  37  0  13  133 
Items affecting comparability in taxes  -77  14  3  10  100  -3  37  0  -51  133 
Items affecting comparability, total  -42  -85  -17  -79  -423  11  -98  21  -224  -490 
Comparable EBITDA
Operating profit (loss)  390  55  107  198  -105  305  50  354  749  604 
Depreciation, amortization and impairment charges 
excluding items affecting comparability  130  126  138  140  147  144  151  147  535  590 
Change in fair value of forest assets and wood harvested 
excluding items affecting comparability  -104  -28  -6  -6  -130  16  27  8  -144  -80 
Share of result of associates and joint ventures  1  0  0  0  0  -1  -1  1  0  -1 
Items affecting comparability in operating profit  -35  99  19  89  523  -14  132  -21  171  620 
Comparable EBITDA  382  251  257  421  436  450  359  489  1,311  1,734 
% of sales  16.5  10.9  10.7  15.9  16.5  17.9  14.1  18.5  13.6  16.8 
Comparable EBIT
Operating profit (loss)  390  55  107  198  -105  305  50  354  749  604 
Items affecting comparability in operating profit  -35  99  19  89  523  -14  132  -21  171  620 
Comparable EBIT  355  153  126  287  418  291  182  333  921  1,224 
% of sales  15.3  6.7  5.2  10.8  15.9  11.5  7.2  12.6  9.5  11.8 
Comparable profit before tax
Profit (loss) before tax  406  26  85  173  -131  271  28  332  690  500 
Items affecting comparability in operating profit  -35  99  19  89  523  -14  132  -21  171  620 
Items affecting comparability in financial items  —  —  1  —  —  0  3  —  1  3 
Comparable profit before tax  370  125  105  262  392  257  163  311  863  1,123 
Comparable ROCE, %
Comparable profit before tax  370  125  105  262  392  257  163  311  863  1,123 
Interest expenses and other financial expenses  33  30  29  34  31  37  29  28  124  126 
 403  155  134  296  423  294  192  339  987  1,249 
Capital employed, average  14,210  14,343  14,421  14,951  15,262  14,831  14,809  14,972  14,791  15,184 
Comparable ROCE, %  11.3  4.3  3.7  7.9  11.1  7.9  5.2  9.1  6.7  8.2 
Comparable profit for the period
Profit (loss) for the period  258  18  71  143  -95  246  33  279  491  463 
Items affecting comparability, total  42  85  17  79  423  -11  98  -21  224  490 
Comparable profit for the period  300  103  89  223  328  236  131  258  714  953 
Comparable EPS, €
Comparable profit for the period  300  103  89  223  328  236  131  258  714  953 
Profit attributable to non-controlling interest  -1  -2  -1  -6  -4  -10  -6  -7  -11  -27 
 299  101  88  216  324  226  125  251  704  926 
Average number of shares basic (1,000)  527,324  527,324  527,391  532,245  533,324  533,324  533,324  533,324  528,554  533,324 
Comparable EPS, €  0.57  0.19  0.17  0.41  0.61  0.42  0.23  0.47  1.33  1.74 
Comparable profit for the period  300  103  89  223  328  236  131  258  714  953 
Total equity, average  10,362  10,359  10,458  11,064  11,356  11,134  11,451  11,669  10,937  11,535 
Comparable ROE, %  11.6  4.0  3.4  8.1  11.5  8.5  4.6  8.9  6.5  8.3 
UPM Financial Report 2025 356
Financial information 2016–2025
€ million, or as indicated 2025 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Income statement
Sales  9,656  10,339  10,460  11,720  9,814  8,580  10,238  10,483  10,010  9,812 
Comparable EBITDA  1,311  1,734  1,573  2,536  1,821  1,442  1,851  1,868  1,677  1,560 
% of sales  13.6  16.8  15.0  21.6  18.6  16.8  18.1  17.8  16.8  15.9 
Operating profit  749  604  608  1,974  1,562  761  1,344  1,895  1,259  1,135 
% of sales  7.8  5.8  5.8  16.8  15.9  8.9  13.1  18.1  12.6  11.6 
Comparable EBIT  921  1,224  1,013  2,096  1,471  948  1,404  1,513  1,292  1,143 
% of sales  9.5  11.8  9.7  17.9  15.0  11.1  13.7  14.4  12.9  11.6 
Profit before tax  690  500  464  1,944  1,548  737  1,307  1,839  1,186  1,080 
% of sales  7.1  4.8  4.4  16.6  15.8  8.6  12.8  17.5  11.9  11.0 
Comparable profit before tax  863  1,123  934  2,066  1,457  924  1,367  1,457  1,218  1,089 
% of sales  8.9  10.9  8.9  17.6  14.8  10.8  13.4  13.9  12.2  11.1 
Profit for the period  491  463  394  1,556  1,307  568  1,073  1,496  974  880 
% of sales  5.1  4.5  3.8  13.3  13.3  6.6  10.5  14.3  9.7  9.0 
Comparable profit for the period  714  953  755  1,679  1,204  737  1,119  1,194  1,004  879 
% of sales  7.4  9.2  7.2  14.3  12.3  8.6  10.9  11.4  10.0  9.0 
Balance sheet
Non-current assets  13,337  14,062  13,913  14,977  12,420  10,149  10,140  9,501  9,144  9,715 
Inventories  1,886  2,104  1,948  2,289  1,594  1,285  1,367  1,642  1,311  1,346 
Other current assets  2,309  2,930  2,612  4,941  3,662  3,424  3,215  2,853  2,612  2,850 
Total assets  17,532  19,096  18,473  22,207  17,676  14,858  14,722  13,996  13,067  13,911 
Total equity  10,335  11,540  11,531  12,879  11,106  9,513  10,175  9,797  8,663  8,237 
Non-current liabilities  4,961  5,162  4,501  5,807  4,102  3,606  2,730  2,194  2,254  3,364 
Current liabilities  2,237  2,395  2,441  3,522  2,468  1,740  1,818  2,005  2,150  2,309 
Total equity and liabilities  17,532  19,096  18,473  22,207  17,676  14,858  14,722  13,996  13,067  13,911 
Capital employed at year end  14,129  15,452  14,916  17,913  13,759  11,555  11,474  10,575  9,777  10,657 
Capital expenditure  621  550  1,122  1,555  1,483  903  378  303  329  325 
% of sales  6.4  5.3  10.7  13.3  15.1  10.5  3.7  2.9  3.3  3.3 
Capital expenditure excluding acquisitions and shares  409  527  1,094  1,399  1,477  902  378  303  303  325 
% of sales  4.2  5.1  10.5  11.9  15.1  10.5  3.7  2.9  3.0  3.3 
Cash flow and net debt
Operating cash flow  1,405  1,352  2,269  508  1,250  1,005  1,847  1,330  1,460  1,686 
Free cash flow  977  766  1,193  -1,077  -74  126  1,432  1,131  1,336  1,424 
Net debt  3,004  2,869  2,432  2,374  647  56  -453  -311  174  1,131 
Key figures
Return on capital employed (ROCE), %  5.5  4.1  3.5  12.8  12.4  6.7  12.3  18.4  12.5  10.5 
Comparable ROCE, %  6.7  8.2  6.4  13.6  11.7  8.3  12.8  14.6  12.8  10.6 
Return on equity (ROE), %  4.5  4.0  3.2  13.0  12.7  5.8  10.7  16.2  11.5  10.9 
Comparable ROE, %  6.5  8.3  6.2  14.0  11.7  7.5  11.2  12.9  11.9  10.9 
Gearing ratio, %  29 25 21 18 6 1 -4 -3 2 14
Net debt to EBITDA  2.29  1.66  1.55  0.94  0.35  0.04  -0.24  -0.17  0.10  0.73 
Equity to assets ratio, %  59.0  60.5  62.5  58.1  62.9  64.1  69.2  70.1  66.6  59.4 
Personnel
Personnel at year end  15,127  15,827  16,573  17,236  16,966  18,014  18,742  18,978  19,111  19,310 
Deliveries
Pulp (1,000 t)  5,163  4,945  4,139  2,761  3,724  3,664  3,715  3,468  3,595  3,419 
Electricity (GWh)  11,141  11,328  12,059  9,442  9,300  9,168  8,619  8,608  8,127  8,782 
Papers, total (1,000 t)  4,291  4,692  4,935  6,135  7,486  7,062  8,326  8,996  9,430  9,613 
Plywood (1,000 m3)  458  482  429  616  738  683  739  791  811  764 
Sawn timber (1,000 m3)  1,113  1,202  1,524  1,538  1,610  1,604  1,741  1,719  1,728  1,751 
UPM Financial Report 2025 357
UPM Annual Report 2025356 357
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors Sustainability Assurance Reports

Sales and personnel
€m employees
24 25212019181716 22 23
Sales
Personnel
4,000
6,000
8,000
10,000
12,000
5,000
10,000
15,000
20,000
25,000
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
Comparable EBITDA
€m %
0
5
10
15
20
25
Comparable EBITDA
% of sales
24 25212019181716 22 23
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
0
5
10
15
20
€m
Comparable EBIT
Comparable EBIT
Items affecting comparability
% of sales
%
24 25212019181716 22 23
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
0
5
10
15
20
€m
Comparable profit before tax
Comparable profit before tax
Items affecting comparability
% of sales
%
24 25212019181716 22 23
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
€
Comparable earnings per share
Comparable EPS
Effect of items affecting comparability
24 25212019181716 22 23
Dividend per share
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
€ %
24 2520 21 22 2318 1916 17
Dividend per share (2025: proposal)
Dividend to operating cash flow 
0
30
60
90
120
150
Financial information 2016–2025
€m
Operating cash flow
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
0
1
2
3
4
5
EUR
24 25212019181716 22 23
Operating cash flow
Per share
€m
Equity and comparable ROE
6,000
7 ,000
8,000
9,000
10,000
11,000
12,000
13,000
0
3
6
9
12
15
Equity
Comparable ROE
%
24 25212019181716 22 23
8,000
10,000
12,000
14,000
16,000
18,000
€m
Capital employed and comparable ROCE
0
3
6
9
12
15
24 25212019181716 22 23
Capital employed
Comparable ROCE
%
Net debt and net debt to EBITDA
0
1,000
2,000
3,000
4,000
Net debt
Net debt to EBITDA
24 25212019181716 22 23
0
1
2
3
4
€m
0
300
600
900
1,200
1,500
€m
Capital expenditure excluding 
acquisitions and shares
24 25212019181716 22 23
0
300
600
900
1,200
1,500
€m
Free cash flow
24 25212019181716 22 23
UPM Annual Report 2025
358 359
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors 
Environmental deviations 
at UPM production sites
0
10
20
30
40
50
24 25212019181716 22 23
no.
More on sustainability
Age structure of UPM employees 2025
age
0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000
>65
61–64
56–60
51–55
46–50
41–45
36–40
31–35
26–30
21–25
<20
Employees’ years of service with UPM
year
>30
21–30
16–20
11–15
6–10
1–5
<1
2023
2024
2025
5,0004,0003,0002,0001,0000
UPM employees by region
persons
Rest of the world
Americas
Asia
Europe
2023
2024
2025
0 20,00015,00010,0005,000
0
2
4
6
8
10
Total recordable injury frequency (TRIF)
UPM workforce
Including contractors
24 2521 22 23 2030
T arget
Certified fibre share
%
50
60
70
80
90
100
24 2521 22 23 2030
T arget
Process waste to landfills
1,000  t dry weight
0
30
60
90
120
24 25
0
21 2322 2030
T arget
Process wastewater volumes 
per tonne of product
Per tonne of paper
Per tonne of chemical pulp
0
10
20
30
40
50
2523 24222108
m3/t
2030
T arget
Products eligible for ecolabeling
%
50
60
70
80
90
100
24 2521 22 23 2030
T arget
Spend covered by UPM Supplier Code
%
50
60
70
80
90
100
24 2521 22 23 T arget
(continuous)
0
2
4
6
8
10
kg/t
COD load per tonne of product
24 252108 22 23
Per tonne of paper
Per tonne of chemical pulp
2030
T arget
Ratio of female to male salaries weighted 
basic salary 2025
%
0 20 40 60 80 100 120
France
UK
USA
Uruguay
Poland
China
Germany
Finland
The ratio is calculated by comparing weighted overage of 
basic salaries of women to men on the same job grade, for 
the eight biggest countries in terms of salaried employees. 
These countries cover 92% of UPM's total number of 
salaried employees.
UPM Annual Report 2025
360 361
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors 
UPM Adhesive Materials
Alvar Aallon katu 1
PO Box 380
FI-00101 Helsinki, Finland
T el. +358 2041 5111
adhesivematerials@upm.com 
adhesivematerials.upm.com
UPM Specialty Materials
Alvar Aallon katu 1
PO Box 380
FI-00101 Helsinki, Finland
T el. +358 2041 5111
specialtymaterials@upm.com
upmspecialtymaterials.com 
UPM Plywood
Askonkatu 9 C
PO Box 203
FI-15100 Lahti, Finland
T el. +358 2041 5113
plywood@upm.com
wisaplywood.com 
Contact us
Investor relations
T el. +358 2041 50033
ir@upm.com
Communications
T el. +358 2041 5111
upm.com/contact-us 
Responsibility
T el. +358 2041 5111
sustainability@upm.com
Media relations
T el. +358 40 588 3284
media@upm.com
Innovation 
T el. +358 2041 5111 
communicationsinnovation@upm.com
UPM
Alvar Aallon katu 1
PO Box 380
FI-00101 Helsinki, Finland
T el. +358 2041 5111
upm.com/contact-us
UPM Biochemicals
Am Haupttor, Bau 4614
D-06237 Leuna, Germany
T el. +49 3461 5195000
biochemicals@upm.com
upmbiochemicals.com
UPM Biofuels
Alvar Aallon katu 1
PO Box 380
FI-00101 Helsinki, Finland
T el. +358 2041 5111
biofuels@upm.com
upmbiofuels.com
UPM Energy
Alvar Aallon katu 1
PO Box 380
FI-00101 Helsinki, Finland
T el. +358 2041 5111
info.energy@upm.com
upmenergy.com
Businesses
Group Head Office
Other UPM business hubs
Follow us online at upm.com
    Subscribe to our releases: upm.com/media
    LinkedIn: UPM – A material solutions company
   Yo uTub e: UPMGlobal
   Instagram: @upmworld
UPM Fibres
UPM Pulp
Alvar Aallon katu 1
PO Box 380
FI-00101 Helsinki, Finland
T el. +358 2041 5111
pulp@upm.com 
upmpulp.com
UPM Timber
Peltokatu 26 C
PO Box 203
FI-33101 T ampere, Finland
T el. +358 2041 5113
timber@upm.com
upmtimber.com 
UPM Forest
Peltokatu 26 C
PO Box 85
FI-33100 T ampere, Finland
T el. +358 2041 6121
metsaviestinta@upm.com
metsaymparisto@upm.com
upmmetsa.fi (fi)
Renewable fibresAdvanced materialsDecarbonization solutions Communication papers
UPM Communication Papers
Georg-Haindl-Strasse 5
D-86153 Augsburg, Germany
T el. +49 821 31090
paperinfo@upm.com
upmpaper.com
UPM Business Hub Tampere
Peltokatu 26
FI-33100 T ampere, Finland
upm.com/contact-us 
UPM HR Service Center
Eximius Business Park
ul. Krakowska 280
32-080 Zabierzów (Krakow), 
Poland
hr.services@upm.com
UPM Business Hub Wroclaw
CU Office
Jaworska 11–13
54-204 Wrocław, Poland
wro.bsh@upm.com
Dividend
The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting that a 
dividend of €1.50 per share be paid for the financial year 2025. The Board 
of Directors proposes that the dividend be paid in two installments. The first 
dividend installment of €0.75 per share is proposed to be paid to share-
holders who are registered in the company’s shareholder register, main-
tained by Euroclear Finland Oy, on the record date for the first dividend 
installment, April 13, 2026. The Board proposes that the payment date for 
the first dividend installment be April 21, 2026.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting of UPM-Kymmene Corporation will be held 
on Thursday, April 9, 2026 at 14:00 EEST at the Congress Wing of Helsinki 
Expo and Convention Centre, Rautatieläisenkatu 3, Helsinki, Finland. 
Helsinki, Finland. Detailed instructions for shareholders are available on the 
corporate website at 
 upm.com/ AGM2026
The second dividend installment of €0.75 per share is proposed to be 
paid to shareholders who are registered in the company's shareholder 
register, maintained by Euroclear Finland Oy, on the record date for the 
second dividend installment, October 30, 2026. The Board proposes that the 
payment date for the second dividend installment be November 6, 2026.
Financial reports in 2026
UPM will publish the following financial reports in 2026
• UPM Interim Report for January–March (Q1) on April 29, 2026
• UPM Half Year Financial Report for January–June (Q1–Q2) on July 23, 2026
• UPM Interim Report for January–September (Q1–Q3) on October 28, 2026
UPM Annual Report 2025
362 363
UPM Annual Report 2025  
GovernanceWe are UPM Accounts and performance
Financial Statements Auditor's Report Sustainability Assurance ReportsSustainability Statement Report of the Board of Directors 
upm.com